fp	and I'm calling from Garland, Texas.	b	Yeah,

co^t	so. anyway, let me press one.	aa	Okay .

sd	and, it was an experience that I won't do again .	qw	How big a family do you have?

sd	We saw people we hadn't see in a while	qy	Did you have people coming from far away?

sd(^q)	and we're going, my gosh.	sv	Well you have

b	Yeah.	sv	And if, they come from far away, they take it more seriously

aa	I think you're right.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	My family's not very big

qw^d	Your family's from where?	sd	Well, I have a, a brother lives in Indianapolis, a sister lives in Chicago, and my folks live back in Buffalo, New York.

ba	no.	sd	I guess we have reunions about once a year or so.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We got together over Christmas.

ba	those are nice.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And I'm sure they're a lot more organized too, because they've done it before.	aa	Yeah,

ba	That's great.	sd	and every year everyone asks when is it happening and where is it happening

b	Yeah.	sd	and they just plan on being here.

ba	well that's great.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	So it was good, it, it worked out very well.

b	Uh huh.	sd	One interesting thing that they did at the time is they videotaped the whole shebang it made a nice remembrance of the entire party.

bf	more people want to come back again.	aa	Yeah,

ba	that's good.	sd	So, so that works pretty well that way.

sd	and, it sounds really neat, it really does.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know how you would go about, getting them together,

sd	and they have a really good for the whole weekend.	b	Yeah,

qy	so, do you own a P C?	nn	no,

qy^d	But you have one at work.	ny	Yes,

sd	see I'm doing my, Master's in Computer Science and Computer Engineering.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I have to use them, like especially during my undergrad.	b	Right.

sv	You know, like it's easier for you to go to and run a program, you know, through the disk, because, the grader can do it at home.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you have to have so many people sharing the same data, that you can't use personal computers, so you have to use, you know, a main frame.	b	Uh huh.

bk	okay.	sd	And, that's been my situation, is that, that way I can get in, access our, computers that I have up here and, you know, do work from home.

qy	But does it have, like, a disk drive?	ny	yeah.

sd	because, the ones that we use, you know, are like UNIX base systems.	b	Right.

sd	And, so they don't have a disk drive.	b	Right.

sd	the only way that you can do it is through a modem.	b	Right.

sd	And, you know, you just do it that way.	b	Yeah.

sd	you can't store it anywhere.	aa	Right.

bk	okay.	b	Uh huh,

bf	And then you also have to do all your grading on the P C.	sd	Well, that's the really neat thing, I teach in the continuing education classes, so I don't have to have any grades, no grade books, so that's great .

bk	okay.	o	But, no,

b	Yeah.	sd	so I think it's extremely helpful and very useful.

sd	Well, for us you know, it's like for doing like, you know, like resumes, and, presentations.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We use like for example, a Mackintosh, which is a lot easier for graphics, than you know, the I B M P C's or anything compatible with that.	b	Yeah.

sd	due to the fact that, well, you know, I haven't tested the P S two yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't know if the software is as easily, you know, like you can manage it a lot easier than the old one.	b	Right.

sd	The old one you had to go pick a line, use little arrows to go onto the screen and check where you wanted to start, and where, you know, with the mouse you do it, you know, like, a hundred times faster.	b	Right.

sd	and that's the way it's going to print out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, especially if you have a laser printer, it's going to print out the same way as it's on the screen.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, so, you know, with the I B M what would happen is, since the software that I had was, it was basically, you know, you only see part of the page.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, so, the whole page you never can actually see it,	b	Oh.

sd	and, you know, it's like, every time that you have to do something it's really a pain.	ba	What a hassle,

sd	it's like if you have to do any statistical data it can be easily represented on a P C.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, like years back when you didn't have that you would have to map out all these numbers.	b	Yeah.

sd	and get a graph which you weren't sure if it was okay or not, you know.	b	Right.

sd	But, with a new system I can calculate everything so fast, you know, like for spread sheets.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You can see what the trend is over the years.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah,	sv	they have really simplified things.

sd	and the other one I had the program running. so if there was ever a mistake, I could easily check, you know,	b	Right.

sd(^q)	I could look at the program and say, this is where I made the error.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	Instead of saying, where did I make the error?	b	Uh huh.

sd	the old ones you had to go out of your program, well load up the program again, in this case.	b	Uh huh.

sd	After you load it up change it, hope that's right, get out of that, run the program, run, uh huh, as long as it took, and then go back and see if that worked or not.	b	Yes.

sd	and say it messed up in line fifty four.	b	Yeah.

sd	and you can see where it messed up, because, you know it's like in the old computers, the ones that, we're using here a couple of years ago, you would always have to have a printout, every time that you ran your program, * end of slash unit? you would need a printout because everything else was erased in the background. / * should have been new slash unit	b	Uh huh.

qy	did, did you learn it in computer science?	ny	yeah,

qw	And, when was this.	sd	I graduated in eighty six.

bk	okay.	b	Yeah.

sd	I know because, all I know is that when I came here in eighty seven, it was the last year to put all your punch cards in.	^2	The cards.

sd(^q)	and they go, my God, they're still using this.	b	Yes.

sd	and, you know , You can get a hard copy of it,	ba	Wow,

sd	and that's about it.	b	Uh huh,

sd	They said that, if the auto industry would have kept the same trend as the computer industry has ever since, you know, it started, they said that, cars would cost two dollars	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they would run forever.	sv	that would be great.

sd(^q)	it's like, yeah, you know, when your, car runs out of gas just throw it away.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, that's the way it would be.	ba	Wow.

sd	an I B M P C in like in nineteen eighty one it would cost you five thousand dollars,	aa	sure,

sd	and now you can get it, you know, like for, one thousand dollars, you know, because of the parts basically.	aa	Right.

sd(^q)	they're not charging you, you know, over pricing, it because it's like, if we sell it for less, you know, it's like we're losing money, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	It's like we want to sell it to break even at least.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I think they stopped producing the I B M P C.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the, P C Junior was a total failure, to them.	b	Oh.

sd(^q)	it's like, sure bring out. N , into the market something that's smaller when nobody uses anything that's smaller than, you know, this, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, Mackintosh took a lot of the market from a lot of schools.	b	Yeah.

sv	you can work with it a lot easier.	aa	Yeah.

ad	well, I'll leave you back to your work.	aa	Okay.

fx	And, have a good lunch.	ft	Thanks.

qo	How about yourself?	b	Yeah.

aa	True.	sd	we have a one year old in the house

b*	Huh uh.	sv	I have to say, during the war the American public was probably flooded with too much information

sv	my personal opinion is that the various network news medias were trying to interpret the news to the best of their abilities since they were not very well informed by the military.	aa	True.

sd	Now, I can appreciate that, especially after what happened in Vietnam.	aa	Yeah,

sv	today's, means of communication, a newscaster could very well giveaway a piece of top secret information. And, pat himself on the back for, making a good scoop.	b*	Huh uh.

sd	I find T News very enlightening, too.	b	Yeah.

sd	Of course, with that goes along with the stock price of T I.	aa	Yeah.

sd	Of course, T NEWS is more or less headlines,	b*	Huh uh.

sd	I don't think much of their sports coverage.	aa	Yeah

sd	Only give the scores.	b	Yeah.

sd	outside of pro football, I'm not too interested in other games, other sports, anyway.	aa	Huh uh.

sv	I think they do a pretty good job of selecting the most important items.	aa	Yeah.

b*	Huh uh.	sv	but you need to continue to read, so you people learn to read, you know .

sd	and I know what it takes to get some of those little bits and pieces of news on the air,	b*	Huh uh.

sd	One of the fellows got mixed up in a riot that was going on down there,	b*	Huh uh.

sd	they left him alone.	fe	Ouch.

aa*	Huh uh.	sv	That's tough.

nn	No.	sd^t	Really I just got mine in the mail

sd^t	Well I'll be looking for it then.	sv*	There not to shabby. / * Correction "They're not too shabby"

bh	Is that right?	ny	Yeah.

o@	Well, good. * slash error You, too.	fc	Have a great day.

sd	I was thinking about whether or not we should have people, be required to do public service for a year or two.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, you can't make it everybody.	aa	Right,

sv	But then you need to make it sure that the rich people can't buy somebody off and maybe send them in their places or get out of it some other way too.	aa	Uh huh,

^g	right.	br	What did you say?

sv	and they all had to pass.	aa	yeah.

sv	I thought it a good idea too, though would be to extend this and make people that are accepting public welfare have to do something along this line before they got any money.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	so they could subsist.	aa	Well that's true.

b	Yeah.	sd	Because, actually, when you do, service overseas you end up learning something, usually that's really useful, plumbing, or farming, or something like that,

sv	So what we could do is take all the retired people that are going around in their big mobile homes and they could do public service all over the country.	br	What did you say?

sd	I'm just teasing .	b	Yeah,

sv	and children from their countries came over to ours too, a trade off.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And other than that, I can't think of any other ideas.	b	Yeah,

bf	with W P A.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	the work program and all the make work jobs.

sd	And we're still using those things too.	br	What did you say?

sd^r	We're still using those things.	aa	Yeah,

sd	They built lodges before too, like at Caddo Lake.	br^m	Lake what?

sd^r	Caddo Lake.	b^m	Caddo Lake.

sd	it crosses into both of them.	o	No,

sd	it's like a swamp.	b	Oh .

sd	You know with all the Spanish moss on the trees, it's eerie.	bk	okay,

qw	where are you from?	sd	Virginia.

sd^t	I talked to somebody from Ohio the other night.	aa	yeah,

sd	I can't remember.	bf	Politicians pushing it, or, or Mitch Snider. Or Mitch Snider.

sd	Mitch Snider, I don't know who Mitch Snider is.	bk	okay,

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

qw^t	What have your other topics been?	sd^t	the other topic was, like I said, something about politicians.

sd(^q)^t	It was what meal would you cook for, special dinner .	ba	Gee whiz ,

qh	How far can you go with that one,	b	Yeah.

^q^t	and what do you think has caused some of the social problems.	b	Uh huh,

^q^t	and what should we do about it?	b	Uh huh.

aa	right.	^q	Cleaner ways of burning coal

^2	Because we don't have much coal.	ar	we have a lot of coal .

sd	In Virginia.	sv	But, it's a dirty fuel, that's for sure.

qw^t	well how did you get into this program.	b^m^t	Excuse me. How did I get into it,

qy^d	For T I.	nn	No.

b^m	No.	nn^r	no,

qy^t	So does your company have something to do with T I.	ng	not really,

b	Huh,	sd(^q)^t	they just sent out a letter to everybody they do business with saying, that you know, if you're interested we're doing a study

qy^t	And do you know how long this is supposed to go on.	no	I don't know,

sd^t	but then it seems like it might be longer than a week.	b	Right.

qw^t	So what do you think we're going to get?	br^m	What do you think,

qw^r^t	What do you think we're going to get for this?	br^m	Get.

qy^d^t	prizes.	no	I don't know.

qy^t	Do you know anybody that's ever done this?	sd^t	you're going to get you own T I seven thirty two or something.

sd^t	I know T I gets prizes.	sd	I didn't hear about that.

sd	I'm not T I.	bf*	your not, / * typo your > you're

aa	Huh uh.	bk	okay.

sd^t	and she saw this on her computer and thought it might be neat,	b	Oh.

sd^t	so she ran off copies of the thing.	b	Oh.

sd^t	And I just signed up for it.	ba	that's a neat idea.

b	Yeah.	b	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sv^t	That's good, especially since you call that one eight hundred number

sv	And it shouldn't be too good right now anyway, because they've been laying off so many people.	aa	Yeah

sv^t	so we're footing the bill on our taxes.	b	Okay.

fc	bye.	sd	I'm going to save my two year old from the pile of grapes she's diving into.

sd	Well I'm going to try to clean up the house after my two children for about an hour see if we can walk around.	b	Okay

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	and so I really don't receive any benefits right now .	b	Right .

sd	and and, right now we have probably some excellent benefits right now.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but we're real happy with them.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I'd say health care is way up there, especially anybody with kids.

b	Yeah.	sd	and does the company pay for it. You know, all or partially

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, also, vacation time too is a big one for me. and I guess support for whatever other, you know, kinds of professional activities you have at, you know, work.

b	Yeah.	sd	cause I've been at places which offer a lot of support and others that don't offer any and sometimes that's coincided with a place that offers more vacation time though,

b	Right.	sv	so that's not so bad, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, it's kind of a give and take kind of thing, I think.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I say that health care is probably definitely number one though.

sv	and, and another good thing is with the health benefits when they give you more than two choices on who to go with.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's worked out really good for us too.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	cause that makes a big difference.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she works, as a assistant manager in a fabric store.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so she works a lot of evenings and weekends

ba^r	That's really good.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	And I think it's kind of neat to be able to spend the afternoons with the kids occasionally too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean usually, you know, you go to work before they're awake or as they're getting, up for school

b	Yeah.	sd	And especially in the winter. I mean, you get up in the dark and come home in the dark you know.

sd	Worked out really well for us too.	b	Yeah.

qy	Well is there anything else that you look for	sd	a lot of I guess is.

sv	you've put a lot of the main points in.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	especially in large corporations. You can really, you know, wind up having, you know, real problems I've found out.

b	Yeah.	sd	I work with, computer systems a lot.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's real hard to rate something like that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's like get a painter, you know, or something, a artist.

ad^t	Tell me about your ideas on this, the U S government supporting health insurance and so forth.	sv	Well, I think it's inevitable that we are going to see national health care

qw	Well what is this going to do the insurance companies who are supporting this work now and hopefully are doing, a good job?	sv	Well, it's going to make it tough for them

aa	Yes.	sv	And, as a society we are paying a staggering price for this.

sv	matter of fact, in some respects their life might depend on it.	b	Right.

sv	But, by the same token some of these charges they make for well, minor endeavors, shall we say on the parts the doctors are really out of line.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they want to charge twenty thousand dollars for it.	aa	Right.

sd	My wife and I both have had that recently.	sd	I've had one myself

b	Yeah.	sv	So, I think the evolution will be interesting.

sd	See, that bothers me about the government see,	sv	Well that's the problem with government, administration of these programs

qr	Do you think that that these insurance things should be covered on a State basis or U S government basis?	^h	You know, that is really a tough one for me to answer.

sd^t	there we go.	b	Okay,

qy	So, do you play golf at all?	ny	Yeah,

sd	Actually, I don't.	bh	really.

sd	so I just stopped playing.	sd	well, my husband is a very good golfer.

sv	that is real good.	sd	and he has been playing since we have been married for twenty two years.

bf	so you have been playing,	sd	but, I really enjoy it.

sd^e	actually, I don't even know if I checked that or not, to be perfectly honest. .	b	Oh .

h	I don't know.	bd	that's okay.

sd	I forget which one it was.	b	Yeah.

sd	It wound up tossing the ball into the trees, virtually every time.	b	Yeah.

sd	I was slicing, actually.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, as it turns out, I went and took some lessons for awhile, because I just, would lose so many balls, and, make it a horrible time for everybody.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I, And I still have this slice ,	b	Yeah,

sd	I'm a graduate student,	bk	okay,

ny	Yes.	ba	great.

sd	As a matter of fact, I don't have time to do much else, except for graduate work.	b	Yeah.

sd	so I hang around this way,	b	Sure.

sd	a bunch of us were pretty avid golfers. Golfers, so we will go out	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we will, we will play, you know.	qy^d	And you don't, you don't have the length of the playing time that we do.

sd	when I go on vacation, my father and I, play a little bit.	b	Yes.

sd	we play a par three, nine hole course.	sd	that's my favorite kind to play.

b	Yeah.	sd	and, in fact, I don't even like to use a driver,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I can just have better contact with the ball that way.

qy^g	But, those are, still not you favorite,	nn	No,

ba	wow, .	sd	One is,

sv	You must be very busy.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Miniature golf, there's my game.	sv	Miniature golf is great,

sd	Miniature golf, there you go, putt, putt.	sd	Well, that's the thing my kids like to do that you know, on dates and stuff.

sd	I don't recall anymore.	b	Well, yeah,

sd	we had the,	b	Yeah,

sd	We have a very good one called Locust Hill though.	br^m	Locust Hill?

sd	the L P G A comes here every year the Rochester International.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And then we had a P G A, actually, a very big P G A, tour stop here, last year.	ba	great.

sd	but, they say the course is, is, is pretty tough, pretty challenging.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, it's exceedingly well kept, apparently.	ba	yeah.

sd	the grounds keepers were absolutely wonderful about, getting things back up again.	ba	yeah.

sd	actually, when the, when the L P G A came here I guess that was about a week and a half ago, it, it takes over the whole town.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and lots and lots of people take off work, to go to go an watch the, ladies , play.	b	Yes.

sd	So, I mean, I think it's absolutely wonderful to see.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sv	People are just cra ,

sd	and you sort of stink, like me,	sv	Well, it's just such a difficult thing.

sv	and you sort of play every now and then.	sd	I mean I just, I watch my husband

sd	And, And, and I can not, and I can not hit a golf ball .	ba	my, really!

sd(^q)	That's because he's probably doing what I do, worrying about, is my head straight, is my arm right, is this correct, am I holding correctly, stuff like that. * slash error Yeah, / * slash error	b	Yeah.

aa	yeah.	sd	And I worry about that.

aa	yeah.	sd	I have just got to get this drive, you know, really far,

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	I have this nasty habit of turning my head at the last second, or, or just keeping my arm wrong.	b	Yep,

qy	Is it?	sv	And you are always so anxious to see where it goes.

aa	exactly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It took me a long time to learn to wait until the ball was in the air before I looked up.	aa	Yeah,

^2	driver.	sv	Because, those short irons, it's just, you want to look up cause you are getting close to the green

b	Yeah.	sv	and you want to see it hit the green.

bf	Watch where it's going.	b	Yeah,

bd	it's no big deal.	sd	Well, when I,

sd^t	Both.	b^m^t	Both.

sd^t	I believe so.	b	Okay,

sd^t	I get a random reimbursement every now and then and don't really don't really figure it out, until afterward .	b	Yeah.

b	really.	sd^t	I just started yesterday.

sd^t	I have been doing this for awhile, actually.	bh	Have you?

na	It seems like it's been a while.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	And I just, get these random checks in the mail every now and then	sd	I had a ,

sd^t	My wife and I both do it, as a matter of fact.	bk	I see.

sd^t	and, To be honest, I really have not been accounting,	b	Yeah.

sd^t	I just sort of figured, well, it's going to work.	b	Uh huh.

sv	an interesting topic.	aa	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm very much a fan of sports cars.

sv	Boy, you and my husband would have a whole lot in common .	sd	I've avoided buying a new car for quite some time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but if I was to buy one, probably something like a Miata.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah

qw	how old is your car?	sd	well I have a nineteen eighty five C R X.

b	Oh.	sd	which is, you know, it's,

b	Right.	sd	But it's actually, it's kind of annoying cause I've got no reason to replace it .

qw	So what do the Miatas run?	sd	they're about, thirteen to fourteen thousand dollars and, you know, a bit more if you add some some options and so on

sv	Well, that's not too bad.	aa	yeah,

sd	I've never driven one.	sd	it's, it's nice.

br	Huh?	sd	you know, about a minute or so. And, very twisty stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it handles so nicely.

qy^d	And so you've done this?	ny	Yeah.

bk	Okay.	b	Yeah.

b	Oh .	sd	it's just so smooth

bh	Really?	aa	Yeah.

sd	Whatever my husband buys .	b	Yeah.

sd^r	so it just, wasn't me, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	And then, I'd want a minivan .	o@	Okay, / * slash error should be bk

sd	Because I'm with the kids all the time.	aa	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	it's small enough that it's easy to drive.

sd	You pick up I pick up my little one from preschool	sv	Holds a lot.

sd	and the whole parking lot's full of minivans.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, you know, I drive a little Subaru.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I just wanted to hold on to it cause I just really enjoy that.	b	Right.

sd	And, that's really all I needed was for something just to go here and there and back.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I've driven it a few times

b	really.	sd	he used it,

sd	We went camping this past weekend with some friends that had a minivan. And pulled the little trailer behind.	b	Uh huh.

qy	The pop up trailer?	ny	Uh huh.

sv^r	so it's really amazing how much a minivan can do.	aa	Yeah.

sv	they're not.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	You can take your choice of how expensive you want it to be.

sd	We do a lot of traveling. By car.	b	Uh huh

sd	But it really didn't cause our kids are still little.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Other than that, it got terrible mileage	b	Yeah

b	Yeah.	sd	Some of them probably even do thirty.

b	Yeah.	sd	there's some other cars I'd like

sd^t	Here we go.	aa	Okay,

sd^e	Two years ago I spent some Fourth of July to Labor Day on a jury that was, a change of venue from Columbus, Ohio for aggravated, murder and kidnapping.	ba	Wow.

sd	it was quite a session that disrupted my whole summer, of course, five days a week,	ba	Sounds like it.

sd	but it was an absolutely fascinating experience.	ba	it sounds like it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think that the, trial by jury is a great idea at it's inception back two hundred years ago.

b	Uh huh.	sv*	and it's just that I think they're just tieing up the, whole judicial process. / * typo > tying

sd	it was the first time in the state of Ohio that, D N A testing was entered as evidence.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the judge was being especially careful that everything was done correctly so there couldn't be a mistrial of any kind.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Actually it was fourteen because we had two alternates.	ba	Jeez.

sd	And the judge was extremely concerned for our welfare, if we were comfortable, and, things of that nature which made us feel good.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the makeup of the jury, was truly you might say a cross section of a country.	b	Uh huh.

sd	one was a former student of mine a few years before who was out of work.	ba	Gee.

sd	So, we had quite a cross section of black, white and women and men.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I thought that that was a failing because, from the standpoint that it was difficult to try to remember everything,	b	Yeah.

sd	and he was right, there also.	b	Yeah.

sv,o@	I think it depends upon how the judge handles the case, and if the criminal chooses to have a a three judge panel I should say, I think he can, * Seems that a 2nd slash unit should begin at "and if the criminal . . ." have that rather than trial by jury.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I went to court

qy^d	You're kidding.	nn	No.

sv	and money.	aa	Yes,

sv	but I also feel, as you said, that the original concept of the jury as it was originally setup, back, a hundred years ago was fine but that it needs to be more refined for today's standard of living and the, level of education of so many people now,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then he wasn't selected on the jury.	ba	my God.

sd	And, you know, some of it just seemed rather extreme.	aa	Yes.

b	Right.	sv	I mean, some things are just so cut and dry.

sv	well, I guess he'd have to be careful with entrapment or some of those things,	aa	Yes.

sd	I assume you have seen on television recently, as probably the whole country has, the beating of the man in Los Angeles.	sv	that was horrible.

sv	and it's just a stroke of luck, that someone was able to get it on tape and then, to listen to the tape recording, at the police station of the whole conversation afterwards.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, if you beat a dog like that, they'll put you, in jail, you know.

sd	Well, we get a few other case, like up at the end of last year where one police officer, it was on a drug raid, was trying to extricate, a confession or information from a drug dealer and did so by placing a hot iron on his bare chest, burned him.	ba	Jeez.

sd	and then last week someone shot and killed the former policeman.	b	Huh.

sv	and we just need more discipline country wide.	aa	Yes,

fc^t	and, good luck on calls.	fc	Okay,

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qw	What are your favorite T V shows?	sd	I guess one of my favorite ones is CHEERS.

b	Yeah.	sd	I always liked that one.

b	Yeah.	sd	Those are probably my two favorites.

sd	My wife and I both like COMMISH.	sd	You know, I've watched that one time

sd	around here at least.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess it depends on what channel you're getting. You know, what system you're getting it through.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it seems to be kind of halfway between, something like ALL IN THE FAMILY and, HILL STREET BLUES.	b	Yeah

sv	it's a good show.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	And he seems to do that sometimes .

sv	he's tender hearted fellow.	aa	Yeah

sd	I think that's what first drew us to him, the, the relationship between he and his wife kind of looks a lot like ours.	b	Uh huh.

b	 Yeah,	sd	I always like,

sd	I know we watch COMMISH any chance we get.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's gotten more and more to where they are so totally against, anything spiritual.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I used to be a real big fan of STAR TREK.	qy^g	Used to be a Trekie, huh ?

ny	pretty much, yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I always enjoyed the show anyway .	b	Yeah.

sd	And STAR TREK's in a s , or the, STAR WARS set	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	one of the first STAR WARS movie?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I think I watched it like nineteen times.	ba	my goodness.

sd	Anyway, I was a pretty big fan of that sort of thing.	ba	Wow .

sd	used to read a lot of science fiction work, too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't know if you heard them or not, I got a twelve year old, twelve week old baby.	b^m,sd,o@	Twelve week, I was going to say, I hear a baby in the background . / * B.66 and 68 2 slash units?

sd	between that and school it's not ,	sv	I imagine that keeps you busy .

sd	Between him and school, there's not much time left for watching much T V.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we're both full time students	ba	wow.

b	Yeah.	sv	That must be tough.

qr	What are you hoping for, a boy or a girl?	sd	It doesn't matter, just a healthy baby.

sv,qy^g@	that's, that's the best way, you haven't found out yet or anything, have you? / * Looks like this should be 2 slash units, with their respective labels shown here.	na	Well, we had a sonogram,

sv^r	That's the best way.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, you know, It's not as much fun.	aa	Yeah

sd	I'm about half kid at heart anyway.	sd	I am, too.

sv	well, a couple of the, ones Disney's doing aren't too bad	sv	Well, you know, it seems like a lot of them are a lot more violent than they used to be.

aa	yeah.	sd	You know, I remember, like, the FLINTSTONES and the JETSONS

sv	the, the worst of the violence in the FLINTSTONES was when somebody gave Fred a poke in the snoot.	b	Yeah

sv	But, shoot, I mean, blowing up galaxies and and putting a curse on the whole planet, or, or you know, on you know, everything of this species, you know, just all kinds of crud .	b	Yep.

sv	everything's mutations and and killing	b	Yeah.

sv	and, Gone are the days of those things they use ,	b	Uh huh.

sd	what was it T N, Turner Broadcasting Network used to, do the Saturday morning and Sunday morning cartoons, the old cartoons. They used to put between the first and second feature at the theatre.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Those old little ten minute jobs where, the real ballooned looking art work, you know	b	Uh huh.

fa	I'm sorry,	sd	Ready to go.

sd	We take, you know, the DALLAS MORNING NEWS daily, and the Plano paper daily	b	Right.

sd	and, you know, after a month of that you got a ton, of newspapers.	sd	I know it builds up really fast.

aa	It really does,	b	Yeah.

sd	I do recycle, newspapers and, glass.	b	Yeah.

sd	so we don't have, you know, six thousand plastic milk jugs, a month, you know.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, so it really builds up with us.

sd	But you know there is a place you can take those also you know at the same place just put them in a different, container.	b	Yeah.

sd	the city is going to leave, receptacles at people's home.	b	yeah,

aa	It, certainly would	b	Yeah.

sd	and then the, you know, trash guys will pick it up. Which would really be handy, you know, for people like shut ins, or, people who can't or don't drive, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	they can't get to the these centers.	aa	Yeah.

sv	And I'm sure rather than try to, ask someone to take them for them they probably just pitch them, you know?	b	Yeah,

sv	But I think that's probably a good idea.	sd	They used to have several places, that were a little ways out in the community that did the paper and all,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they stopped doing it because they said it wasn't profitable.

b	Right.	sd	So finally, the people put so much pressure on the city,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they did a survey of everybody,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they took a big huge bin that has paper and plastic, and put it in front of the Wal Mart store in town,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they, it just really,

aa	That's right.	sd	and so Wal Mart complained ,

b	yes.	sd	so they moved it behind the store

b	Yeah.	sd	and so people kept piling stuff in the same place, where it used to be.

ba	Great .	sd	it was just like a dump there,

ba	I bet it was.	sd	and so finally, you know, I called

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we do that because we have milk cartons, you know, constantly, with two little kids, and the paper,

b	Sure.	sd	but it just builds up,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it would be so nice if they had it, you know at your home, where you could just turn it in so they final had enough of a response that they decided to try a small target area , in one neighborhood,

b	Right.	sd	and they have pickup there,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the first couple weeks they did it nobody got their stuff out

b	Uh huh.	sd	but then finally people started getting the message.

sv	It's just a matter of education, I think.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think originally people thought it would be profitable for cities to do this,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it's not going to be,

b	Yeah,	sv	I don't think .

aa	that's right.	b	Yeah.

sd	I hope it works.	aa	Yeah,

aa^r	absolutely.	sd	I know this year we took our Christmas tree

b	Right.	sd	and they gave you a little, seedling to plant, you know ,

b	Right.	sd	you could take the mulch home with you, you know, and take buckets of that home,

b	Uh huh.	sv	so that was really good idea,

b	Sure.	sd	I thought.

sd	and it's amazing how much stuff just the two of us generate,	b	Yeah

sd	you know, I can imagine a family of, you know, four or five.	aa	yeah

aa	It really does.	b	Yeah.

sd	I really hadn't thought about it to tell you the truth.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've read so many different things about diapers

b	Uh huh.	sd	but now their saying that they're, really not that much in comparison to the others because you don't have to use the water to wash them, and, you know, all different kinds of things too,

aa	That's right.	sd	so the diaper service, trucks

b	Yeah.	sd	So I don't know what's the, you know, right thing to do

b	Uh huh.	sd	but the landfill have to do something special, you know, for those,

b	I see.	sd	but that just generates a tremendous of volume of trash too,

sd	you know I'm not personally involved because you know, I don't have any children that wear diapers,	b	Yeah.

sd	but I'm sure it creates a large amount of, you know, refuse.	aa	It does,

aa	That's right.	sv	because you hate to contribute to the problem,

aa	Absolutely.	sv	but on the on the other hand the alternatives aren't to great either .

aa^r	absolutely.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know if those are recyclable

sd	there is a receptacle, you know, at the centers also for aluminum,	b	Yeah.

sd	but again we don't generate that much	b	Yeah,

sd	we don't,	sd	we don't either,

b	Yeah.	sd	we usually use frozen vegetables and things

sd	ninety nine percent of ours is newspaper and, you know, glass.	b	Yeah.

sd	Car batteries.	b	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	so I don't, don't have that problem.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	we try to recycle old clothes .

sd*	well we do to as a matter of fact. / * typo too	sd	Our church has a place, where you can take them

b	Right.	sd	and they, you know, pass them on to, other families,

sd	we have one of those in town.	b	Yeah,

sd	one of their major fund raisers is, you know, a garage sale.	b	Oh.

sd	it's called the Clothes Closet,	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's what it's called here in Plano.	bf@	Kind of like a Goodwill, / * should this really be the end of a slash unit? B's next utterance is left hanging as a result

aa	Right.	bf@	kind of place. / *' if previous B utterance is "de slashed"

aa	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	And they distribute them to the people, that need them.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, I'm not sure I can't really think of anything else that we could recycle.

sd	I can't either ,	b	Yeah.

sd^r	I really can't either.	b	Okay.

fc	well, it was nice talking to you.	fc	You to.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye. .

sd	since living in Dallas it's always so hot, in the summertime, I just, wear lots of shorts, because I don't work during the day.	b	Uh huh.

qy	So, do you work?	ny	Yes,

b	Oh.	sd	but I work at a manufacturing plant,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But occasionally I have to get dressed up and wear panty hose and a dress, and high heel shoes

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I feel really uncomfortable doing that

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, normally I just wear blue jeans and a T shirt.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Very, very, comfortable.

sd	so, you know, I just wear you know, my shorts and stuff like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't go out and spend lots of money on, different, you know, suits and stuff, you know.	b	Uh huh,

sd	so you know, I had more suits and stuff then	b	Right .

sd	Worry about all that kind of stuff .	sd	Well, I have plenty of suits and dress clothes because I'm like you, when I first started working, I have all these suits and blouses and skirts and mix and match, and that kind of stuff ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but now that I, you know, work in the manufacturing plant, then it's just, so much more difficult for me to actually get dressed up to come in to work like that.

b	Right.	sd	but occasionally I have to because, part of my job is teaching, and training,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, so you have to look just a little bit nicer than your normal, garb .

b	Yeah.	sd^r	Than your normal garb .

bf	moved from, Winter.	sd	and I had mostly polyesters and, wools and winter clothes and buying all these cotton clothes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then, of course, you have to iron them all the time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	that's been a problem for me.

sd	and, You know, I've got all these clothes that I never wear, because you can't wear them here.	aa	Right.

sd	You have so much summer.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, so then when you know, I finally get a chance to go out with my husband it's like a real chore to find something nice to wear .	aa	That's true, that's true.

b	Yeah .	sd	Well, I know, I was just now, putting away a lot of my winter clothes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I was going through here

b	Yeah.	sd	And, because it's a wool skirt

b	Yeah.	sd	And I have five or six wool skirts,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I was thinking well, maybe, you know, I need to think about getting rid of them,

bf	You hate to get rid of it, because you know how much you spent on them.	aa	Uh huh,

sd	And it's real hard to get rid of some of that stuff, I know.	aa,o@	I know, I agree with you . / * 2 slash units?

b	Uh huh.	sd	But the previous winter we had more, cold weather where I was able to actually wear, your double and triple layerings of, clothes yeah, like you would when you're up north.

b	yeah.	sv	So , that's really interesting.

sd	right now my clothes come from Target, you know .	aa	Yes,

sd	and they're wadded up in a ball.	aa	Yes,

sd	I'm so glad to meet somebody that their iron board is their permanent fixture in their house.	sd	It is, it is.

sd	but my ironing board is part of my decor	aa	That's true,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then you can actually have one where you can put it inside of a wall, you know, to have it, permanently attached,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's what I'm thinking I'm going to have to do because mine's sitting right out in front of my bedroom

sd(^q)	but it's like, I just don't want to do it ,	aa	Uh uh,

b	Yeah.	o	No.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I wouldn't have to have that eyesore .

ba	, that's an idea.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I have a big closet.

sd	if I know I'm having somebody come over to the house and there's a possibility they might be going back into my room, I will put it away,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I iron our clothes as we go along,	b	Uh huh.

aa	no.	sd	and I'm like you, the night before or that day, I will iron whatever it is that we need

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because it's too many,

bf	You can't iron it all	b	Uh huh.

sd	they can't decide what they want to wear so they, change their minds, you know, I know, I mean my oldest is only four,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but she's still changes her mind two or three times, before she figures out what she's going to wear	b	Right.

sd	And then they never put anything back.	aa	No,

sv(^q)@	that, that's called smart, you know, we don't do that kind of stuff, you know. * Seems this should end in a slash That's called too easy on mom. / * See note above; this would seem to be an indep. slash unit	aa	Absolutely not .

^q	Our lot in life is to make her life miserable	aa	Uh huh,

sd(^q)	It's like, it's easy, you just do it, you know.	aa	That's right .

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know several of my girlfriends, though, we all keep our ironing boards out and just, an ever present thing in our household

sd	My husband wouldn't know where to hang his dirty clothes.	ba	There you go.

o	You know.	sd	Things that need to be mended, things that have to get ironed,

sd	He wouldn't know where to put things	aa	Uh huh,

b	Yeah	fc	well, it was nice talking with you.

fc	it was nice talking with you, too.	fc	Okay,

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Uh huh,

qw	so what would be your favorite meal to cook?	sd	None to cook.

b^m^g	Don't like to cook, huh?	aap	Spaghetti, I guess, though.

b^m^g	Make a mean spaghetti, huh?	aa	Yeah

qy	got kids?	nn	No.

qy	married?	ny*	Huh uh. / * According to the following utterance, this is an AFFIRMATIVE answer, so should be "Uh huh"

b	Yeah.	qo	So what about yours?

sd	so don't do much cooking for him yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	and, what kind of dishes you might have for it, or some sort of thing like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I suppose it would just about depend on who was coming, I guess.	b	Uh huh,

sd	If it was pretty informal about anything.	b	Uh huh.

qw	How do you usually cook your deer?	br	Huh?

qw^r	How do you usually cook your deer?	br^m	How do we usually?

ny	Yeah.	sd	On the grill, we'll take the back strap and soak it in Italian dressing for a couple of hours and throw it on the grill

b	Yeah.	sd	and it is good.

ba	I imagine.	sd	Real good.

ba^r	I would imagine it is.	sd	Either that or hamburgers, we really don't have dinner parties.

ba	I understand.	o@	* slash error Ooh. / * slash error

sd	We just had, deer stew sort of it was deer steak stew. well , about a day, day and a half in the crock pot, some deer steaks in kind of a mushroom gravy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	some veggies in it.	qy	Did you kill the deer?

nn	No.	b^m	No.

sd^e	the times I've been out deer hunting, I can go out in the woods unarmed and deer will be tripping over me and vice versa.	b	Uh huh

sd^e	this was given to us by some friends.	b	Uh huh.

sd	guy was in a hunting club	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then at the end of the day, they split it	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the rest of it is split with the rest, with everybody in the group.	ba	well, that's nice.

sd	they went out last year and almost everybody got it, the limit	b	Uh huh.

sd	so everybody had deer coming out their ears.	b	Yeah,

sd	about eight months ago they gave it to us.	b	Yeah.

sd	or we'll, you know, put it out on the grill so that, the bulk of the tallow will dribble off of it.	b	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	sd	Chili.

sv^r	Deer spaghetti is real good.	aa	Uh huh

sd	I think if I was going to have a dinner party, I'd probably have, sandwiches or something along those lines and then, you know, just something light finger food sort of something or, Or maybe have something roasting out on the fire.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Usually it's, one other couple come over for a dinner.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we had a turkey loaf.	b	Oh.

sd	scalloped potatoes.	b	Oh.

sd	mashed potatoes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Mashed potatoes with, cheese melted over the top of them.	o@	* slash error sounds good. / * slash error

aa	Yeah,	sd	This isn't a good topic for me right now.

sd	I've been fighting my weight since I was about ten years old.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but I just feel that ,	sd	Well I don't know how much publicity it's gotten outside of the state

b	Uh huh.	sd	to be honest, I didn't pay that much attention, to the details of it.

b	Uh huh	sd	the big disagreement I have is that in California, the appeals process, is so extensive and takes so long that you end up spending a huge amount of money in like ten to fifteen years before you can actually, you know, put somebody to death for, for a crime.

sv	that is a consequence,	sv	And, I mean, that's ridiculous.

b	Right.	sv	and you should be able to either put the guy to death

sv	Well maybe that's something that needs to be worked on.	b	Yeah.

qy	was that the man that claimed he was abused	ny	Yeah,

ba	yeah.	sd	and so he wasn't, you know, mentally competent or anything else. Which is ridiculous,

b	Yeah.	sd	and the court found him competent,

qw	How long was that?	sd	I forget.

ba	Boy.	sv	it was something really outrageous.

sd	You know, it's not used that often you know. At least here in Texas	b	Yeah.

sv	I really do .	sv	I think in general, punishment in the United States is a lot weaker than it should be.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean there's no connection between the two.

aa^r	right.	sd	I mean you take you know, most of the people who are committing violent crimes, most of them, not all by any means,

b	Uh huh.	sv	they don't really see past next week much less next year.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And to say, you know, well if I kill somebody then a decade from now, I might face the punishment.

b	Yeah.	sv	That's not real.

sd	My sister and I were wondering about this recently because an old friend of ours in California, this happened about a week ago.	b	Uh huh.

h	I don't know .	qy	you mean, would he be put to death for that?

na	Right.	sd	largely depends on the circumstances

aa	I think you're right.	sd	if they can say things like, you know, well he was just, you know, temporarily insane because of, some domestic squabble then you know, they'll give him, you know, twenty years with parole in twelve or something like that .

aa	Yes.	sd	that's, that's the state that was famous when they executed somebody.

sd	Gary Gilmore.	b^m	Gary Gilmore.

b	Yeah.	sd	By firing squad, as I recall.

sd	and we still have a death penalty.	b	Uh huh

sd	I guess we have the longest, running inmates for death row too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then we had another guy, Ronald Lafferty, that thought God told him to kill his sister in law.	b	Yeah.

sd	He just got a new trial because, the judge felt that he was incompetent.	b	Uh huh.

qo	how do you feel about the death penalty?	sd	until recently I've been sort of,

b	Oh.	sd	I assume they're doing it for that reason .

sv	Well, I'm sure that's .	sv(^q)	by by saying well, doing th , this particular crime in this particular way is a capital crime now.

sv	but, terrorism definitely. And selling out your country.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's got to be something that is going to cost them, because we never lock anybody up forever.	aap	Not often.

sd	We've got these guys in New York that, I'm sure you heard about, the ones that killed, the gentleman that came from Utah to watch the tennis people.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I guess they got convicted, the four, of murder.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	So you've come to a definite opinion on it now?	sv	it seems like it's gotten carried away,

bf	You kind of hate to,	o	No,

qy	You mean violence?	qy	yeah, I mean, doesn't this encourage murder, in order to wipe out the the witnesses?

sv	I think that people who, infringe on other people's rights, and screw up their whole lives with rape, child molesting, terrorism, just	b	Yeah.

sd	but I'm for it for certain reasons.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I think that things like rape, you can't get over, it takes a lifetime.	b	I see,

nd	if it was, Yeah.	sd	A six person jury could have decided either way, of course .

sv	and, if they're habitual, like three times caught for rape or child molesting then snuff them.	b	Uh huh.

br	Pardon?	sv^r	The problem there is that they've been let out jail.

sv	That isn't a place of rehabilitation.	b	Yeah,

qy^g	it's a tough question, isn't it, on whether, at what point do they become so detrimental to society that society can't afford to keep them around to keep giving them chances.	ny	Uh huh.

o	Set.	b	Okay.

qy^g^t	you got the topic, right?	ny	Yeah.

qw	well, where in Dallas are you?	sd	I'm in Richardson.

qy	So you do recycling there?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they also have a couple of areas where you can take, cans, plastic and paper, to, you know, dump them off there if you don't, want to wait and have a pick up, least of paper,

qy	do you know?	no	I'm not sure.

b	Uh huh.	qo	What about you?

sd	Well, I'm in Dallas proper in the city of Dallas	b	Uh huh.

sd	So they're not picking up anything .	b	Oh.

sd	We've got all these boxes in our garage for, you know, green glass and clear glass and plastic and everything.	qw	Where do you take them?

sd	there's a lot of places to take, like the plastic, shopping bags like most of the grocery stores.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, it would still be more convenient than what we have now.	sd	One of the people from my department, I think used to take a lot of the stuff to a recycling center that was for the benefit of the Dallas Shelter.

qw	Where is that?	sd	she's not here anymore

sd	I'm, I'm, I'm just, I'm north of Addison actually.	b	Oh.

sd	So I'm really	b	Yeah.

sd	s , I'm in Dallas, but only technically .	sd	Well, sometimes we always keep our aluminum cans.

b	Yeah.	sd	And a lot of times they take them over to one of these can banks.

sd	I've seen those.	sd	You don't get too much money back.

b	Yeah.	sd	But normally I collect, like three trash bags full

b	Yeah.	sd	and I take them over to that can bank

sv	Well, you get something .	b	Yeah.

sd	but, again, that's another stop	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so hopefully they'll do it soon.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That would be good because we have two trash pick ups a week	b	Uh huh.

sd	that would be great.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and like sometimes they come by,

b	Oh.	sd	I'm not really sure why they're not always consistent in that.

b	Right.	sd	That would be easy.

qrr	or do they take the whole thing?	sd	You're not supposed to have, like the coupons in there.

bk	okay.	sd	or you're not supposed to put magazines in there

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you can't take newspapers.

^g	right?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, well, that's stupid

b	Yeah.	sd	There was like a lot of paper coming out of our department that wasn't recyclable.

b	Yeah.	sd	So I thought that was pretty good to expand upon it,

sd	Well, and they take cans, now, too. Which is great.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, In fact this past year, we got all of our money for the Christmas tree because we saved cans for the entire year.	b	Oh.

sd	And it worked out really well.	sd	Well, we had the one person who used to take things to the Dallas Shelter.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think that's what that was called.

b	Uh huh.	sd	she used to collect from the whole department,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I wish I could remember the whole name of that place,

b	Uh huh.	sd	she used to collect them from everybody in the department.

b	Yeah.	sd	She'd go up and down with her little bag collecting from everybody.

qy	you got any hobbies that you want to talk about?	sd	Well, I, don't seem to have as much spare time as I used to,

qw	What in the world do you do with your computer that takes so much time?	sd	Well, I sit and design cards

bh	really?	sd	and, I'm really into graphics,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it's just getting going.

ba	that's good.	bd	Well, I guess .

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it's really a challenge,

sd	Well, I, play trombone in the Plano Community Band.	ba	neat.

sd	And I, like to do a lot of bicycling when the weather allows, and during summer when there's daylight savings time's when I get out and bike.	sd	Well, I hope you all had as pretty a day today as we did.

sd	Well, it wasn't too bad, other than the Cowboys didn't do so hot.	aa	well now, yes .

sv	the Lions are pretty good, I'm afraid, a lot better team than the Cowboys were today.	o	On any given day, they say.

sd	but I always go back to it .	sd	I take spells,

ba	I understand that.	sd	and then I get burned out on it.

sv	Well, you do lots of stuff.	sd	Well, it doesn't seem like I get anything done,

sd	I cover Texas and Oklahoma.	bk	okay.

sd	I got customers in Oklahoma City and Tulsa and Perry, Oklahoma and Eda and all that way.	ba	how neat.

sd	about thirty three thousand miles a year.	sv	well that doesn't leave a lot of time for hobbies,

sd	so that isn't too bad.	qw	How big is your band?

sd	but we only average about forty to fifty people you know, usually.	ba	Ooh.

aa	Yeah.	sd	It's not like there are four or five of you there.

sd	It's fun.	sd	I have absolutely no musical ability whatsoever,

sd	I sing in a church choir on Wednesday nights when I'm around, and play in the band on Monday nights, and keeps you out of trouble that way.	sd	Well, I'm probably one of the few people that the,

sd^t	Jerry, the topic was favorite T V shows, and what kind are you interested in, and how they, and do they differ from like mine.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sd	Now I do watch the Discover channel and some on channel thirteen

sd	I'm sort of a movie buff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and a lot of times I will, go out and take a lunch hour, go to lunch from like twelve to two, go to a movie and just come back to my office.	ba	I don't blame you.

sd	and I'm pretty much of a junk movie watcher by myself.	b	Uh huh.

sd	If I take my wife, then we see something a little nicer, you know.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and I'll turn on the tube set there and have my coffee or Coke or whatever and a little T V	b	Uh huh.

sd	and sometimes I set there all evening.	b	Yeah

ba^r	you bet.	sd	And, because they're, they're, you know, they're documentaries and they're.

sv	Well, that's an interesting channel.	aa	you bet,

sd	and, you know I like my sports and everything	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I left at halftime	sd	Well, they, who , they whooped up on them.

sv	They just did an excellent job.	b	Uh huh,

b^m	the Eagles	sd	I did.

sv	luck into it now, I think.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Cowboys, they earned it on their own merit.	sd	Did you know, everybody, or not everybody but quite a few of the folks were kind of down on Mister Johnson,

sd	as much as everyone, you know, used the word, love Tom Landry, I'm glad that Jimmy Johnson's there.	b	Uh huh,

aa	It was.	sv	And I think Tom knew it.

sv	I think he would have stayed there four or five more years until he could have gone out	aa	Yeah,

sv	it's, you know he earned his stripes.	b	yeah,

sv	he's a winner in anyone's book	b	Yeah.

sd	and I hope he's a winner in his own book, you know because that's the key there.	sv	he is,

sv	but, you know, this ring of honor thing, you know, he needs to be there because he's earned it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he won't do that yet.	b	Yes.

sd	So. I hope he makes up his mind to do it, because he needs to be remembered.	sv	he will.

aa^r	no.	o	Shoot, come now .

h	let's put it that way.	aa	you betcha.

sd	and I feel like a native.	^h	Well, let's see,

bh	did you.	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I haven't looked back yet either,

sd	we came down from New York state in seventy four, and never had any regrets at all.	aa	Right.

sd	It's been.	ad	and then look at the weather we have down here.

sd	and I've got my last kid graduating from college this next December	b	Uh huh.

sd	she's getting married the month before in November,	ba	goodness.

sd	I will be finished with that.	sd	Well, we're well, we're finished with all but the last one, and trying to get him through his technical school

b	Right.	sd	and, he's over halfway,

ba	Well, good.	sd^t	You know, we're not staying on the topic of television shows,

sd^e	not at all.	aa	No,

sd^t	I guess tonight's subject is to discuss current events and how we keep up on current events, and if we're satisfied with the, coverage that we receive.	aa	Right.

qo	how about yourself?	sd	Well, I'm like you.

b	Uh huh.	sd	whatever I'm doing, I watch that.

b^r	right.	sd	so I get it from T V a lot.

bk	Okay.	sd	And, The thing about it, you know, now that I've found, is that we get such good coverage on T V, or at least such, I don't know, attempted thoroughness of coverage, by the time you get the TIME MAGAZINE, there's nothing in it you don't know.

qy^g	It's historic events, huh.	na	Right.

bk	okay.	sv	You know, it's, basically you've heard everything

aa	Yes.	sv	and, you might get a little more thorough, account of something,

b	Yeah.	h	I would say.

sv	And it'd be refreshing once in a while to hear some good news.	b	Right

sv	we do.	sv	I think our concept of news isn't necessarily events that happen.

aa^r	true.	sv	But, on, on T V I think, they try to throw in good stuff,

sv	and quite often it's a lot easier to listen to the police scanners or what they call ambulance chasing	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess the economy is effecting also the news media	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think that nowadays with communications the way they are also, that we can see global events happening as they occur all over the world, like the,	b	Right.

sv	you know, twenty years ago, thirty years ago, we wouldn't have been able to have that privilege or luxury to view that.	sd	I mean, you know, I remember, well, just the things that are covered.

ba	yes.	sd	I mean, you know, that was just so phenomenal to see this stadium shake and the announcers, you know grabbing,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, it's like, that was just something because that was like live and real like you said,

b	Yeah.	sv	and then, of course, one thing I think, too, is with tele ,

qw	what did you buy?	sd	A Ford Explorer.

br	I'm sorry, what?	sd^r	A Ford Explorer.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I'd probably buy another, this is the first American vehicle I've owned.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I would probably purchase another one, I would be more selective in the dealership that I purchased it from

bh	really?	nn	No,

sd	if I had the money, I think I would love to own a, a B M W.	qw	And why would that be?

sv	It seems like they last forever.	qw	What's wrong with the Volvo.

sv	I don't know, they're not as nice looking.	b	Oh.

sd	but everyone I've seen is kind of plain,	qw	what city are you calling from?

sd	Sherman.	b	Oh.

qw	Where are you?	sd	Up in Dallas.

b	Yeah.	b^m	B M W or Mercedes, yeah,

sd	my actual favorite cars were, like the Ford Thunderbirds of nineteen eighty five.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't own one of those either .	qw	What do you presently drive?

sd	Mercury Topaz.	ba	fun.

sd	cheap taste in cars, okay .	sv	Well there nothing wrong with those, they're nice veh , they're nice vehicles, nothing wrong with those.

sd,o@	they're all right, it's, it's a good car, * Looks like A.37 and 39 should = 3 slash units I mean, I've never had any problem with it. / * See parsing note above	sd	it's just everybody has their own taste,

fa	Sorry I roped on Volvos then .	br	Huh?

fa^r	Sorry I roped on Volvos then.	bd	no,

sd	See I don't much about them I guess.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	they're kind of low to the ground after driving the Explorer.

b	Really.	sd	Because you can't see a car ahead of you,

b	Uh huh.	qo	what are your feelings about American versus European cars?

sd	I don't like Japanese cars,	qw	Why not.

h	so, I don't know.	ba	That's the way it goes, I guess.

qy^d	I guess this is your first time to buy American,	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know, I mean, I think European cars are great, course you've got to have metric wrenches and stuff

b	Really.	sd	excellent warranty, I mean, just, unbelievable warranty.

b	Yeah.	sd	I wouldn't send my dog to buy a car from Middlekauff Ford.

br	Where?	sd^r	Middlekauff Ford in Plano.

bk	Okay.	sd	their attitude is just slimy.

sd	and the people, wouldn't reimburse them for anything.	qy	Middlekauff wouldn't?

br	What.	sd^t	I was asking you some questions about the telephone and how many have you been doing,

b	Oh.	sd^t	they don't want to hear that.

sd^t	just about a week.	qy^t	Is that all?

ny^r	yeah.	ba	Good Lord,

b	Really.	fe	God, I've,

ba	wow.	sd^t	That's why I wasn't sure if this was the second time around or what.

fc	you too.	ad	And keep smiling.

ft	thanks.	fc	Bye, bye.

sd	Lucille, I'm on .	b	All right,

qy^t	did you hear our topic?	ny	Yes.

sd^t	basketball.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm a Dallas Maverick fan.	sd	Well, I certainly am too.

sv	It just seems like they were just getting themselves in a position where they could possibly be a final team playing for all of it.	aa	Yes, sir.

sd	National championship or the world championship, and something like this happens.	b	Oh.

sv	I think that probably be evident with the more and more young guys they draft.	sv	Well, it just, it's so discouraging that they can't really,

sd	so being a transplanted Texan in the Dallas area, I have to stick with those Dallas Mavericks.	sv	We certainly need to support them,

sd^e	we do. You know.	qy	Do you go to the game?

sd	and when my kids got to a certain age and went off to school and college and doing their own thing, sort of gets boring going by yourself .	aa	Yes,

aa	you bet.	sv	But, maybe they can do some.

sv	they trade the nucleus of their power right now.	aa	Yes, sir,

sv	Donald Carter, the owner, I think with all he's invested, he deserves a a healthy team for one year and a good break also.	ba	Yes, sir.

sv	This thing with Roy Tarpley just upset everyone, I think. Fans, owners, management, everyone.	sv	And they have just done as much as they can for that man,

sv	I think they're fools if they ever bring him back .	aa	I do, too.

sd	I just would not believe him any more.	sv	I mean, you can't give, anyone too many chances

aa	No.	sv	and I think he has gone over the limit.

^q	but you can't make him drink.	aa	That's right.

sv	But to be making a million dollars a year, that's pretty sad.	aa	It is tragic.

sd	and now he's probably an old age of, twenty five or six and making all that money,	ba	Yes, sir.

sv	well, that's quite a, that's a little more of a challenge for a young man than they need at that point in their life, I think.	aa	I think you're right.

qy	Do you play?	ny	Yeah,

na	Well, I'm into it.	b	Yeah,

qy	Is anybody?	nn	No

bh	Really?	sd	And I'd go up there with friends after school a couple of times every week

b	Right.	sd	and then I'd started picking it up again a couple of years back

sd	and then, I got on to a team in high school but wasn't very good still. and then quit for awhile	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I've been playing, you know, off and on when I can.	b	Right.

sd	Up in Minneapolis it's not too easy to play in the winter of course	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, I'll be going back down there in May and hopefully be picking it up a little more regularly.	b	Uh huh.

aa	I was going to say .	sv	I mean it's a great game

sv	that's true, all too many times.	b	Yeah.

sd	Fortunately, down where I live in Florida, there's some golf courses that are pretty reasonable if you know where to look.	b	Uh huh.

sd	one of them is the University of Florida golf course which is open to the public	b	Right.

sd	and that's pretty good.	b	Yeah.

qy	Can you get like a student discount type of thing	na	a little bit but not a whole lot.

qw	what, what are green fees run there?	sd	well they range anywhere from about five bucks for your basic city type course up to fifty, sixty dollars for a really, really nice course.

sd	that's about the same I guess as it is in Florida.	b	Uh huh.

ba	that's super.	aa	Yeah.

b	uh huh.	sd	Somebody's paying

ba	Well, that's the way to do it though.	aa	Yeah

sv	That's the way to get in some good practice without having to pay for it all the time .	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	It's nice to see those , guys.

sv	Because once the guy hits the ball and they got to try to follow the ball that's a little difficult.	aa	Right.

sv	but like you said, it's kind of boring actually.	b	Uh huh.

bh	yeah?	sd	and I was able to go and see one of the rounds of that

sv	I bet that would be .	sd	I never really thought it would be that much fun to go to a big golf tournament and watch

sv(^q)	you know, looking at it on T V, you're thinking, man, what a boring thing, you know.	aa	Right.

sd	I'll have to see if I can't get a chance to go,	sd	I mean it's a lot more exciting than actually watching it on T V.

b	Right.	sd	and then they go off to some other hole

qw	What do you do for a living?	sd	I'm a student right now.

bh	you are?	ny	Yeah.

qw	which university?	sd	At, Indiana University.

qw	What are you going into?	sd	I don't really know.

qy^g	Definitely not golf, right ?	nn	No .

qw	what was what was that movie that they had out?	b	Yeah.

sd	and I can't remember.	b	Huh.

sd	It was on network T V a couple of times.	bh	yeah?

ny	Yeah.	sv	Well, you know, it seems like, well you go to work every weekend. Play, maybe, one, two tournaments a month. You come in about tenth, you'd still be doing pretty well.

sv	that's a good thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, fortunately, I've been able to play some golf on a student budget which is real helpful, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You hear about Japan. I guess, you know, it's like two hundred fifty dollar minimum or three hundred dollar minimum just like to practice even .	b	Right .

b	Yeah.	sv	that is out of control.

sd	I guess they have those, driving ranges that are actually stacked one on top of the other.	b	Yeah

sd	They were into it.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm from Dallas.	bk	Okay,

b	Okay.	sd	Well, I'm in Dallas right now,

b	Uh huh.	sd	well, I don't know if you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we're trying to promote that, because she thought we just put them in a special trash can and threw them away,

sd	Richardson does.	bk	okay.

sd	they started with newspapers and, of course aluminum cans, and and bottles and plastic.	b	Yeah.

sd	I didn't know there were different types of plastic, though.	aa	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	it's just different kinds of plastics, like the clear plastic is different from that milky looking plastic.

bk	okay.	sd	And that's what the different types are.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	It seems to be made out of something different.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I know there's a long scientific name

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know if they do it all over,

b	Yeah.	sv	That's something since we all seem to have an abundance of those plastic grocery bags .

aa	Yeah.	sv	I know we use them for trash can liners and a lot of other things.

bf	Lunch bags.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	The only problem with those is sometimes they get holes in the bottom.

sd	they do.	sd(^q)	It's like, whoops, there goes my chips

b	Yeah.	^q	okay,

b	Uh huh.	qy	in fact did you happen to see TWENTY TWENTY the other night?

nn	no.	sd	They did a program,

b	Yeah.	sd	They have built up one mountain.

b	Yeah.	sd	They built up one mountain, covered it with grass, and put ski lifts on it,

ba	Wow.	sd	it's, Riverview, Ohio or some place up there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I thought it was a pretty neat idea.

sv	they'll run out of space before long.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, they're going to be called the Twin Peaks.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	So, it's like, well, no, Honey.

b	Right.	^q	and you make them into new things,

b	yeah.	qy	so do you all go ahead,

sv	They don't even know that paper comes from trees now,	aa	Well, yeah,

b^m	How do you grow paper?	sd(^q)	Was like, well, from trees That's why you have to cut down trees and why you have to plant more trees.

^q	And how do you grow aluminum?	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	But at least she knows that that is something that people need to be doing,

sd^t	And we are to just discuss what substances do you think that contribute most to air pollution, as well as what society can do to improve the air quality of the atmosphere around us.	aa	Right.

qy	does your work entitle, anything of environmental along these lines?	sd	I'm in the legal department

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I don't know too much about the air pollution thing.

b	Right.	sd	And supposedly that facility will not generate air pollutants from what I've heard, that everything would be in, you know, confined kind of incinerator and just burn it all up.

sd	I work in environmentals, projects right now.	bk	okay.

sd	And so the Sherman deal lost a lot of hair over that project.	b	Oh .

sd	what we run into, is we have the Texas Air Control Board, T A C B, that send out, jurisdictions under which we have to, reply to.	b	Uh huh.

ad	look what we've done here at T I.	b	Uh huh.

sd	this is our side a , allow to have certain emissions up to a certain tonnage.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's in, in, in tons per year.	b	Okay.

sd	We, are very, aware of the opacity, which is the thickness of a stack emissions.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So it's a full time, everybody has their home phone number type of job.	qy	Now is that place built

sd	It's been pitched to the Sherman City Council with, open arms, as well as the public.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, Tom Jones, our corporate environmental guys handle the project.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think it's just a matter of fund, funds right now as I understand it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It will have something coming out of the stackhouse it was, it was human nature.	b	Right.

sd	and, it's an interesting job.	sd	Well, I know from some of the sites that we've had, quite a list of cites that have gone bad

am	Possibly.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	there was one site that they cleaned up

sd	we have duckwork and all those type of interesting pieces of equipment where, they have, that we sample	sd	Uh huh.

sd	And we mix it with concrete and actually, potash, per se, and concrete and then actually put it in the ground. But not in a hazardous waste location because it's, basically, a concrete slab.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've enjoyed speaking with you,	b	Yeah.

sd	I was responsible for all the planning and engineering over the corporate, or in the north building .	bh	you were?

ny	Yeah.	bk	okay.

o	So, I hope you like your office.	aa	Yes.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	People used to come and laugh and go, gee, I hadn't seen one of those ten, fifteen years.

sv	Well, I think what changed everything is, y'all were the only ones that make any money for TI, here in the last ten years, Ju ,	sd	We, finally got a little respect.

sv	And that's, when you start, when you start paying your way, you know, Jerry takes a different outlook towards you guys.	aa	Right.

fc	I've enjoyed speaking with you.	fc	You too.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

sd^t	we're going to talk about lawn and garden today.	aa	Right.

qrr	or do you wish to discuss that?	nn	No,

sd	we're neighbors.	b	Yeah.

b	Okay .	sd	but grew up in, Iowa on a farm with a considerably different philosophy in terms of lawn and garden work.

ad	Can you hang on just a minute?	aa	Yeah.

fa	I'm sorry.	bd	No.

ad	Go ahead.	sd	So, not growing up familiar with here, when I get a chance I listen to that Neil Sperry and do that .

sd	I get a lot of good tips from him.	b	Yeah.

sd	I have his book, too.	bh	Yeah?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	Don't do any, any gardening in the sense of, vegetable gardening

sd	Not in Texas.	sd	There was one when, we, when we bought the house

b	Uh huh.	qo	What about you?

sd(^q)	and I said, huh uh ,	b	Yeah.

^q	I can do it much cheaper and better.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's so much easier than taking that lawn spreader and walking all over the territory.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	And, I thought, well, I'm going to do this all the time.	ba	Well, good.

sd	and I took them to a certified, nurseryman the other day,	b	Yeah.

qh	and do you know what he told me I needed to do?	nn	No.

^q	this is unreal.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I think I'll get my son in law to do that for me, if he will.	b	Yeah

sd	and I don't know, what happened to it,	qw	What, Well, what kind what kind of trees are they?

sd^r	one is, , a maple,	b	Huh.

sd	I think it's not a native Texan tree.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they don't, get any care,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're just beautiful.	b	Uh huh

sd	and, you know, and, although I don't have too serious a problem,	b	Yeah.

sd	and you know, Sperry said, you know, that's what happened to the Crepe Myrtles, the last two years that, we are looking at all the freeze damage from the prior two years.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I kind of think that maybe that, happened to these large trees that I have.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, that's one of the hazards I guess of, having a yard.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but what trees were there when we moved in, had been put in by the developer when he built the house,

sv	the quick growing,	sd	And, figured up last night,

b	uh huh	sd	three we've lost to, to, freezes between, eighty three and then, a year ago we lost, another one.

sd	I don't know how to get rid of these big trees, because one has a circumference of about ten inches,	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	two of them, the wind blew over in terms of getting them down.

sd	Because you still have to ,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but what I just used a hand saw and sawed them off at, as close, close to ground level as I could, and then, got s , got some chemical that drill holes and pour in that helps , helps rot the,

bf	a stump killer.	b^m	stump ki , yeah, stump killer, and stump rotter,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, this last one had a fair sized root

sd	and I think it's some kind of a screwing thing that just rips it right out.	b	yeah,

 %	yeah.	sd	and, I took the,

b	Sure.	sd	and, and it's filling in with grass, nicely this year, so that, that was worth it

bf	A blessing in disguise.	aa	Yeah.

bf	I mean, two fold purpose.	aa	Yeah

sd^e	I have a self propelled, Snapper.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it, and it's very difficult to address.	aa	yeah.

sv	They're very expensive.	b	But, yeah,

fe	booey	sd	And I took it back home,

sv	they always try to give you a song and dance.	sd	But, o , one of my sons and a couple of his friends this year have ,

sd^t	but, it's camping.	b	Really.

qo	How about yourself?	sd	Well, I haven't been in probably about three years.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the last time we went was in, well, I guess it was like hunting season,

sv	I bet it's pretty over there.	sd	It is real pretty.

qw	What do you think, what kind of camping, are you talking about?	qy	Do you do a lot of fishing?

qrr	or do you actually put up a tent	sd	One of the ones that you pull along

bf	so you have,	qy	and is it pop up?

ny	Yeah.	b^r	Pop up.

qy^g	A pop up trailer, huh.	ny	Yeah.

sd	We have a tent.	br^m	A tent?

sd^e	So I guess we really rough it.	b	Really.

sd	I've camped, basically almost anywhere, even to the point where we've had to backpack in and everything you carried in was what you had to use to sustain you for that camping trip and had to pack it back out.	bf	So you're a serious camper.

sd	But since I've been married and with a family, we have to go where there's restrooms . And playgrounds, and so forth,	ba	Well, that makes sense.

sd	We recently moved from the Rocky Mountain area up in, northern Utah down to here because of work, and, haven't been able to enjoy fishing like I used to up there, which is, clear water fishing and streams and rivers.	qy	But when you all went camping is that what you normally, I mean,

sd	but mainly what we did was we did a lot of hiking and exploring and just going out and seeing what there was to see, in the area.	sv	I guess probably just wherever you live at has a lot to do with what you're going to do when you go,

o@	And, * slash error No, / * slash error	qy	Did you ever like travel around to what's that, the little K O A camps whenever

sd^e	we never did that.	qy	ever done that?

sd	personally, when we were growing up and when we were going camping, I thought that was a little too structured of a camp ground.	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, that was mainly for people in motor homes or had trailers and so on and so forth, where, you know, we really wanted to go camping in a tent	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, K O A is geared for the people that have a hookup.	bf	That actually travel, what, city to city, state to state.

sd	and we camped in the snow, and in, snow caves,	sd	That's probably where I first started, was in Girl Scouts.

qy^g	And you got a lot of that in, huh?	ny	Yeah

qw	What do you like to do when you go camping?	sd	well, let's see. I mean, I just like to go

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we just kind of go and hang out and just do fun stuff.

qy^g	Enjoy it, huh .	sd	Roast marshmallows.

bf	Tell scary, or scary stories around the fire	aa	Yeah,

sd	but I've found out that actually we really enjoy getting away from the television, the telephone	aa	Yeah,

sd	getting out and enjoying nature and each other as company when we're out camping.	sv	kind of makes you appreciate a lot of the things you take for granted.

aa	Yeah	sd	Running water

b^m	Running water	sd	your hair dryer

^2	and a private bathroom.	sd	curling iron.

aa	Yes .	qo	What about your family.

sd	I want a Rolls Royce and a Cadillac .	ba	Hey,

sd	I like to work on cars too.	b	Yeah,

ba	that's good.	sd	I don't know if I'll ever want another new car again, you know.

sd(^q)	they didn't necessarily say buy it new they just said, what would you buy, you know.	aap	Maybe not.

sv	a restored, vehicle is great, I think, certainly if it's an old Mercedes will be good.	b	yeah,

ba	Well, that's great.	sd	that's not quite authentic,

sv	you all, done a lot more,	sd	I had to stop there.

sd	when I talk about working on cars I sure don't do that.	b	Yeah,

bk	okay.	sd	they just weren't really expensive,

ba	that is good, acknowledgeable people.	aa	and, yeah, you know,

ba	That's amazing.	aa	yeah,

sd	so, I have Chevies, mostly,	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, that's all I've got right now	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm, a Chevy, I'm an American car person,	b^m	You're an American car person.

sd	but I do like Mercedes.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	h	and, I don't know,

b	Yeah.	^q	we'll try something different

sd	Well, I'm not a Ford person and never have been as a kid,	b	Yeah.

sd	I went to the auto show with my daughter recently, down in Dallas	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, to me the American cars are far superior to the Japanese in styling, engines, right now, I mean,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm not saying that they were, a couple of years ago.	b	yeah.

ba	yeah.	sd	I'd, I would hate to see the American car industry suffering more than it already has you know, even though right now I'm not driving an American car,

sd	but I would like to, put it in that category, by a Cadillac	b	Uh huh,

sd	but I wouldn't, buy a new one	b	Yeah.

sd	and, you know, of course, if I had the money I'd be happy to by a new one,	b	Yeah,

sd	but, I do look for a one year old vehicle, with twenty some odd miles or whatever twenty thousand miles, whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I remember those.	sd	and it final just wore out

sv	That she may want to save, if she doesn't have it anymore.	ar	No,

sv	since they don't make them anymore, that could be turned into a classic, in ten, fifteen years,	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I'm still a full size person,	b	Yeah.

sv	but they're, certainly not,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, and they'll eventually phase them out	b	Yeah,

sd	and I sure would like one ever those, within the next five years, or so.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	they've scaled everything down so much

sd	Well, even the Japanese cars are bigger too	b	Yeah,

sd	I've never had a Jap ,	sv	now the Lexus are very nice looking cars, you know.

sd	I've had friends who had them,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you can't tell one Japanese car from the other, because they all a like,	aa	That's true,

sd	I mean, they really all look a like,	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't have any idea which car it is, until I look at it to see what it is,	bf	What is what,

sd	they do have sports cars	b	Yeah.

sd	you can get a Cadillac for, the same price as you can get a small Japanese, car,	b	Uh huh,

sv	it's ridiculous now.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I guess it just, seems to me they're all the same shape.

sd	but they were, just styled so differently,	b	Really.

sd	but they really looked beautiful.	qy	Are they still,

sd^e	they have convertibles now in the Cadillac, field	b	Yeah.

sd	it's not the big, Fleetwood, the one I want, which is been the same in the last twenty years,	b	Uh huh.

sd	the Seville is totally different,	b	Uh huh.

sd	now at the auto show they had fantastic looking cars.	qw	Now when was this,

sd^e	it was a month or so ago.	bk	okay,

sd	Well, they have it every year.	b	Yeah,

sd	and, they had all the cars	bk	I see.

sd	they had Japanese and German cars,	b	Yeah.

sd	they had, a new Chevy Suburban, truck, you know,	b	really.

sd	they didn't have a price on it, nor did they know had a it would cost,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it had a microwave in it and everything,	ba	my word.

sd	they had several futuristic cars.	ba	That's wild, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	you hear about things like that

sd	they had a lot of not broken down, I mean, you know, cut, displayed engines, you know.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Yeah,	b	Yeah.

sd	but again yeah, the American cars were for superior in styling and, new engines,	b	Yeah,

sv	and, I thing so, because they've been making these four cylinder and six cylinder engines for a while / * spelling "think"?	sv	somebody's finally woken up, you know.

sd	and, I think that, I would definitely buy,	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	again there's the question are we in the market,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I could buy anything, you know.	aa	yeah,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	and you really would have to be a dream car because the repair bills are supposedly just constant, you know.

sd	Well, I haven't work on them myself so you know, my cars don't go to the shop, you know,	b	Yeah,

sd	and, I've got three of them	sv	Well, that's good that you can.

sd	I think I had one someone welded a muffler on for me, in a years time,	b	really,

sd	like I said I don't do that you know.	sv	I think it takes a talent to do that, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	He drives, drives a Honda.

sd	but I worked my way through college as a mechanic	b	Uh huh,

sd	I learned early from, fifteen on, and dropped it for a long time when, when after I got out of college and, then picked it up again later on	b	Right.

sd	and I never get in them and just go to the shop at you will, you know.	sv	Well, that's one thing that when you would consider,

b	Uh huh.	sv	so, you're pretty lucky in that respect

sd	I'm keeping V eight Chevy engines, because that's what I know,	b	Yeah.

sd	if you, brought your Chevy to me I'd probably have some parts, for it right now, you knows .	b	Uh huh.

ba	that's great,	sd	and it's, it's really been so interesting the people you meet because, my husband Carl has called all over the country, you know,

sd	I've always wanted to that too.	sd	he's gotten these catalogs try ,

sd^t	So, child care, your views.	sd	well, we only have one child right now and another one on the way

qw	And what religious faith?	sd	Latter Day Saints.

ba	 that's good.	sd	So so that's what I would try to do.

qy^g	they do seem to be at the outside edge of both extremes don't they?	ny	Uh huh,

sv	And, whenever they are they seem to regulate the good toward the bad instead of bad toward the good.	aa	Right.

^2	Better situations.	aa	Yeah.

qy	so, have you ever used outside child care?	nn	No,

^2	Real day care.	aa	Right.

sd	our step daughter's ten now	b	Uh huh.

sd	and most of the day care has been provide for by Grandma.	sd,o@	I like that situation, that's usually real good . / * 2 slash units?

sd	But, quite honestly what I believe to be the best day care situation was while we lived up, the Pass of Woodland Park there was, ex school teacher that, did a small amount of before school and after school, you know, kindergartners, or half dayers in her home	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they would read and play,	bf	Have structured, activities and not just, you know, stick them in a corner and say you're on your own.

sd	and, despite our beliefs, she was, one of the more, Charismatic Christian faiths	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it worked out wonderfully.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I don't know that it would be state approved.	aa	That's true.

sd	but I do know that the license doesn't seem to, guarantee quality.	b	Yeah,

sd	now here I believe that child care meets, by in large, certain standards for, balanced food, if they provide food, cleanliness, and levels of supervision levels being defined as number of working adults for number of children	b	Uh huh.

o@	but, * I'd definitely call this an incomplete slash unit. Yeah, / * See note on A.49 above	sv	That's, kind of a minimum there that you're getting.

sd	and I'm, a backsliding Presbyterian	sd	I like that term .

sd	and, I really believe that this Charismatic care, or the Charismatic belief when emphasized on care, or semi Charismatic I might say was quite good.	b	Uh huh.

aa	very	ba	Well, that's good.

sv	and, the care is what I guess you should emphasize in the term child care instead of the child.	aa	Uh huh.

^2	And not have any care.	aa	Right.

qy	Do you know had a I'm saying?	sv	Well, even educated play, supervised play, can teach without,

bf	Proper interface.	aa	yeah,

sd	It's just correctness of social skills, if you will.	aa	Right,

sv	it's a very broad issue.	aa	Uh huh,

sd	the owner of the chi , of a, you know, a large child care facility now,	b	Uh huh.

sd	we're not talking somebody that does six kids, in their home or three or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Right.	b	Yeah.

sd	Their employees earn almost nothing.	aa	Yeah.

qy	do you and your husband both work.	nn	No,

ba	Well, that's wonderful if you can make it that way.	sd	Well, we decided to,

sv	Well, like I said, that's grand if you can pull it off	b	Right.

qy	So, do you have any credit cards?	ny	Yes,

b	Okay.	sd	But I've gotten rid of all of the credit cards, you know, that I possibly could,

b	Uh huh.	sd	credit cards run, what, anywhere from, up to eighteen, nineteen percent, I guess.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's just a bad deal.

sd	I have one card.	b	Uh huh,

sd	but right now, it's maxed out .	aa	Absolutely.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's so easy to pull out the plastic,

sd	the thing that bothers me worse than the credit cards, I think, is, you mentioned the gasoline credit card.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I've got, you know, one of the, the instant teller cards that you can use for point of sale purchases.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's just it's really amazing how quickly that goes.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	But, you know, the instant thing may, may be the way of the future you know, to replace checks and every other thing.

sd	that's what they've talked about it.	b	Yeah.

sd	Course it eliminates any waiting period.	aa	It certainly does.

sd	God help those people who have to float checks occasionally because you won't be able to with that.	aa	Absolutely.

nn	No.	bk	I see.

sd	they consider it to be the same as cash well, cause it actually is.	bk	I see,

sv	It's better than cash .	b	Uh huh.

sd	it just goes straight in there.	aa	That's right.

aa	Right.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh	sd	But, I have in times past gotten into a bit of trouble with credit cards.

sd	but I'm so glad he told me that they, they got to such a point with their credit cards they didn't want to cut them up because they were afraid sometime they might actually need them.	aa	That's right.

sv	I mean, that's funny.	sv	Well, that's a novel idea.

sd	I want to still have just one just in case.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, I'd sure want to get it paid down and not use it for a while .	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we plan purchases, you know, pretty well, you know, watch for the best buys, things like that.

sd	Well, our limit is, you know, fairly low	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, so that's one thing that's good.	aa	Sure.

sd^t	I've got another call.	by	I'm sorry.

fc	Okay.	fc	Take care.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	and then I also take the WALL STREET JOURNAL.	qy	Do you get a chance to do it at home

sd	I'd rather sleep the extra thirty minutes in the morning.	ba	I understand that.

b	Yeah.	sd	and then during the week, I catch up, you know, on the radio on the way to work or if I'm traveling around at lunch or on the way home

sd	we're never in home in time to really watch the six o'clock news on television,	aa	No .

sd	so we catch the ten o'clock news,	b	Yeah

sv	but radio news is rather short.	aa	It is.

sd	most of the stations here that are not all news stations you get about five minutes on the hour.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And if you catch the news stations, you don't catch that much in the car.	bk	I see.

b	Yeah	sd	it's frustrating to me because I don't know, what do I want to say? I wish that I was around more news.

sd	I tried the news magazines like TIME, NEWSWEEK, U S NEWS and WORLD REPORT,	b	Yeah.

sv	or all of a sudden you look and there's three weeks worth laying on the coffee table	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you wind up throwing them out without reading them.	aa	Yeah,

sv	so have to depend,	aa	That's true,

sv	I guess we're becoming more of a television oriented nation in that I don't think that, my children even read newspapers, other than the T V guide section.	ba	oh no .

sd	There's is all, strictly television news.	sd	A little bit that worries me, because I feel like the news is so biased.

aa	yeah.	sd	And yes,

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	and I'm like, who are you to judge. You know,

sv	it's the same thing with, the news magazines, like TIME and the other magazines.	^q	just report the facts.

sv	It's hard to celebrate, to separate the news from the comment, because, in the way it's presented their opinions is print, or presented as being the news.	b	Yes.

sv	And so then you have to try and sort out what really is the news.	sv	And I feel like they sensationalize things that shouldn't be sensationalized.

aa	That's right.	sd	But they keep asking these questions

b	Right.	sv	Stupid.

sv	and then they devote, an inordinate amount of time on the news cast to their personal ax to grind.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	And, particularly the local television. I know the, the Wednesday's Child bit	aa	I agree.

sd	I'm not saying that's not important,	b	Yeah.

sv	but they leave out a real news issue to devote to one of their local pet projects.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sd	So I guess when I get to listen to the news, it's probably television or radio.

sd	and I'm reading it in the evening,	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm about a day behind most of the time anyway .	aa	Exactly,

b	Yeah.	sd	Well I'm glad tha ,

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	and I'm like, how do they seem so together all the time.

b	Yeah,	sd	So, I guess news is just part of that rat race for me.

sd	my wife and I feel that we never have a moment that we can call our own.	b	Yeah.

sd	you don't really have time to sit down and thoroughly read a newspaper.	aa	Exactly.

sd	Didn't find time to even read it.	b	Yeah,

ad^t	well that's about all then.	fc	Well I appreciate talking to you.

fc	Nice talking with you.	fc	Have a good evening.

fc	Same to you.	fc	Bye bye.

qy^t	did you catch your explanation of that?	ny	Yes,

b	Okay.	sd	maybe I'm a hard liner

qy	You mean the crimes or the punishment should fit the crime?	na	Right.

bk	Okay .	sd	again, having participated in jury duty myself, I know , I know how such a diverse group of people get together, the different backgrounds, different ideas, that sometimes you can have one person or two, that can hold up what I consider the proper sentencing, of the person.

ad	Could you hang on one minute Jim?	aa	Yes ma'am.

fa	I am so sorry to keep you on hold.	bd	No problem.

qy	Are you at work?	ny	Yes.

sd	I am too.	b	Yeah.

sv	it's insane.	sv	So many things in their back,

sv^r	It's insane.	aa	Yes.

b	yes.	sd	And yet, the attorney, for the prosecution could not enter the good man's background into it.

b	Yes.	sv	Whereas, I think that's,

sv	It seems like ,	sv	Those that should be in jail should be in jail .

sv	there's too much, underhanded, things going on that the public are not aware of.	b	Yeah

sv	The victim has been victimized twice, not only by the perpetrator of the crime but also, the courts that try to do the justice.	sv	Well, I think this is one of the reasons that also that attorneys have such a, unsavory reputation,

sd	I don't have an ounce in my body of credibility toward the judicial system in the United States.	b	Yeah

bh	Isn't that terrible?	sv	And, that's not the idea.

sv	To get him out of that, criminal mind that he has and to direct, him into a more productive life.	b	Yeah

ba	how sad.	sd	And the person that killed him was a young woman who had left the house with full intent to commit crimes, carrying a gun in her purse.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, anyway it'd get to the,

b	Oh.	sd	Of course it took eighteen months for the trial to happen.

b	Right.	sd	So, then, there was a letter writing campaign that went in,

sd	I have found that out. That if enough people respond and rise up against the injustices being done, something is going to change.	b	Right.

sv	People have to be involved.	sv	This is it

b	Yeah.	sv	and most people don't take the time.

aa	That's right.	sd	Again the only reason I took the time is because I was personally acquainted with these people.

aa	That's right.	sd	I'm just as guilty as the rest in that respect.

sv	but our priorities are a bit backward.	aa	yes.

aa	That's correct.	b	Yeah

b^r	Yeah.	b	Okay.

sd	So if the person is not in the right mind, I mean they had to, put her away.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we just dismissed the case. You know,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, she was, taken care of by the proper facility.	b	Yeah.

aa	that's true.	sv	And then the amazing thing, of course, is how, some cases can come to trial in thirty days,

sd	I have mixed views on all three of them.	b	Uh huh.

sv	what, what's, what's certainly drawn everyone's attention to that is the fact that, many of the inner city and, I guess what we'd call, ghetto or poorer districts, including rural districts, don't seem to be able to produce the students that, indeed many, manufacturing and other, enterprises want.	b	Uh huh.

sv	they can't seem to read properly, do math, properly, and conform to what employers want.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and also, I think that, a certain percentage of, the public colleges produce a fairly decent student, or fairly decent graduate, I should say.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I didn't realize it was that high.	aa	Yeah,

sv	well that's what I was going to point out, I think it mostly is that technical,	b	Yeah,

ba	Wow.	sd	I think, I think I have similar views,

b	Yeah.	sd	and she said that you know, they have to go through, they have to pat the kids down, because they bring guns to school.

sd	I just read an, amazing article, I guess, in this week's NEW YORKER about Baltimore, which, went on to talk about,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I do, I do know a few people and have been, have done some business up in Baltimore,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it was very difficult.	b	Uh huh.

sd	if I'm looking to carry on a conversation, that way, there's a couple of things that really bother me,	b	Yeah.

sd	I think when I learned the other day, that, the average American, now, watches seven point two hours of television a day,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now, I don't know what school children, what year that is.	b	Right.

sv	I mean that's a hell of a lot time to be sitting in front of the tube.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	my wife teaches, middle school.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah,

bf	so you're close to the subject.	aa	yeah,

sd	I have nine grandchildren in various parts of the country,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, of course, you know, I can't speak to the rural or poorer inner city schools,	b	Yeah.

sd	they live in a fairly nice upper scale neighborhood,	b	Yeah.

sd	and they seem to be doing extraordinarily well.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I, I mean, I think that's part of the environment.	aa	Yeah,

sv	that, that, that could be very well true.	sd	she's, yeah, she can tell, she can tell, you know, when they have kids come in for,

b	Right.	sd	they meet with all of the parents,

b	Yes.	sd	and she can tell before a parent comes in, normally, you know, give or take, eighty, ninety, per cent, you know, what the parents are going to be like when they come in, and the responses the parents will give back.

bh	No kidding.	ny	yeah.

sd	I guess I can understand that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	However, I'm a product of the New York City public school system from fifty years ago, maybe not that long ago,	b	Yeah.

sd	and so, I always felt I didn't get a real good education in the grammar schools and part of high school,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we did it	b	Right.

sd	and I thought a great deal of the success that they had in their education was due to the low student teacher ratio.	sv	I think it's probably very true.

sv	And, I, I think that's a formula that could be applied everywhere, except it must cost a heck of a lot of money if you do, it in public school.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	^q	let's sit down and read together.

sv	Well, that, that's, that, that must be, then if that's,	b	Yeah.

sv	I think we both agree on that, then, then, then a parent, parental involvement has to be there.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and it seems to me that money could be more well spent somewhere else.	sd	But you know what's really funny is that there's been some research, because I'm a, I'm a college professor, and, and, a lot of the research shows that like, Georgetown, while Hewing was playing at Georgetown, basketball, Georgetown, and they were winning, endowment to the university, in other words, money that could to everything, everything, and normally gets directed away from sports, realistically, a lot of the, was, was probably, two thirds, I guess it's now two thirds of what it was when they were national champions.

b	Yeah.	sd	In other words, while they're national champions, people donate more money.

b	Right.	sd	Average human beings like you and I, average Joes, that make a decent salary, that are a graduate of the school, send big bucks, like couple hundreds of dollars,

b	but I mean, right.	sd	but thousands of people,

bf	you say other things than sports, though.	ar	Because, no,

sv	but I mean, they don't just send it to the new stadium,	aa	Right,

b	Really.	sd	Because when Georgetown was number one, their, their money that was donated to them from companies, from l , from business people, from graduates, whatever, was up into, you know, like twenty million dollars,

b	Yeah.	sd	and now it's down to like, fourteen million.

sd^r	Well, I never thought, of that benefit,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but the consequence, then,	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	my, I guess what I'd have to say about that, is, there can only be one champion .	b	Yeah.

qh	Isn't that something, though,	aa	Yeah.

sd	I didn't realize that.	qy^d	but, smaller schools aren't like that,

nn	No.	qy^d	only the big time schools show that.

ny	Yeah.	sv	But you're right,

b^r	yeah.	sv	but swimming never gets much glory, so it really doesn't matter.

sd	Well, Mark Spitz made a lot of money on it.	aa	That's true,

sd	but he didn't make it.	b^m	He didn't make it,

b	No.	sd	I would have liked it if he would have, though,

b	Yeah.	sd	but I think, realistically you know, you read the, the research studies,

b	Yeah.	sv	and, I don't think he would have made it simply because the event he was trying to swim, the research shows that distance running, so I would assume distance swimming might be similar, that,

b	Yeah.	sv	and he was good at distance, Spitz, as a swimmer, you know,

b^r	right.	sd	and, but he's was trying to make it in the sprinter's event,

b	Right.	sd	and most of them, are under twenty five.

sv^t	we're getting off the subject here a bit,	b	Uh huh,

sd	but I do want to add this to that, because I was quite interested in that myself,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they didn't think they could capture the excitement to get sponsors, if you brought just the f ,	ba	you're kidding.

sd	So it had to be, where they could put it in one segment,	ba	Jeez.

sd	and, and I guess, capture the whole thing for some sponsor.	b	Huh.

co	Let me ask you another question.	sd	as an athlete, I just hate that.

b	Yeah.	b	yeah,

sd	Well, if you teach college,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, I know, when I went to college, I went to summer school,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I did, take those subjects,	b	Uh huh.

sd	my next thought is, I understand there's a lot of talk now about extending the school year which seems inordinately short anyway, compared to the Japanese, or the Germans.	b	Uh huh.

aa	that's right .	sd	and something you have to consider, too, because I know as a, as a former high school teacher, I know that from right now,

fp	Hello.	fp	Hello .

sv	Well, I think it's a very, very complicated,	b	Huh.

sd	Because I, in general, like a smaller rather than a larger population, to the land area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I'm in California, which has a lot of immigration. Probably more than any where else in the country, though I'm not sure if that's the case.	qw	Where are you?

b^r	yeah.	sd	In Garland, right outside of Dallas.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	So, we're getting a large ,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	Cambodians, Asians, Vietnamese.

sd	well, Texas, used to be part of Mexico, or most of it .	aa	Yes,

b	Huh.	t3	Okay.

sd	I guess the one thing I do see is that needs to be a solution is, that if you do let people into the country, I do feel you have a certain obligation to, to get them on their feet.	^2	To get them on their,

sv	and you're dooming them to being underclass people.	b	Right,

sv	And, of course, there are people in the big cities who would like nothing better than to take advantage of them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the funding isn't there for very much work to be going on.	sd	And there's a lot of graft, like people giving them information that was free to them anyway if they just knew how to get it.

aa	exactly.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, these are people who don't have the foggiest idea about what America's like.	b	Right.

sd	But when they initially come over,	qy	You mean, really trying to plant something?

ny	Yeah,	qy	Farming?

sd	These, are all farmers coming over,	b	Oh.

sd	and they're being put in the middle of the city .	ba	that's terrible.

sd	they're people who farm on the hillside and then leave the hillside to another hillside and farm on that hillside.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And there was no, real upward movement.	bf	And not being cared for.

sd	But I didn't, I wasn't a social worker or anything like that.	bk	All right.

sd	I do have friends who have tried to do more, social work, you know, by explaining to people how the language, and what the problems learning English might be and such.	b	Uh huh

sd	And people don't realize how different some of the languages they speak are.	sd	Well, I'm an E S L teacher.

bh	you are?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh,	sd	I got my certification.

sd	that's been my impression.	sd	I mean, it's like people don't know, what they say,

sd	it's not, they're not withholding information,	sd	it's not step for step.

sd	they just don't have that information.	b	Yeah

sd	they haven't the foggiest idea.	sd	But anyway, I enjoy it.

sv	And Spanish is, pretty close to English, really.	sd	but I'm applying for,

sv^r	And Spanish is a lot like English.	sv	A lot of our words are the same,

b	Yeah.	sv	like, you know, they just change the pronunciation a little bit.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I love it.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and I like it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And trying to get them set up, inculturated, into the system.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I thought that would be good experience for me.

sv	I'm sure it would.	sd	And, I've applied at another district where many of the children are Asian.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And I think that would be wonderful too.

sv	I mean, and part of the problem is that, a lot of Chinese and Japanese immigration from, you know, decades ago has been very successful because they valued education and so forth.	b	Right.

sv	And it's really much more complicated.	sv	Well, the times were different too.

b^m	the times are different, yeah.	sd	My neighbor, let's see, is Jewish.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And he spends,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he thoroughly enjoyed it.

sv	I guess another possible solution is, since taxpayers aren't going to start paying more money for this and, and other budgets aren't going to be cut to pay for it, more of the volunteer network service.	aa	No.

sv	Because everyone gains from it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and if it's, you know, just people helping people I think makes the community so much happier.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yes.	sd	And because they're so deficient in English, they haven't been able to get jobs.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	So they'll have to go back and get a degree here. You know, almost start all over.

sd	but of course, if you're educated and you don't speak English, no one thinks anything of you.	aa	No,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I feel sorry for her.

fc	okay.	fc	Have a good night.

sd	it does sound like you have some children to take care of .	aa	Okay.

fc	bye bye.	fc	Okay,

sd^e	He doesn't have any children yet though.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I do have some neighbor kids, lots of little neighbor kids.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, it's, because like this one that lives right next door, her mother does some work at home on computers	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it just seems like she doesn't have any time for her. Which is kind of sad, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, actually I do think that the parents should have, you know, a little bit more time to spend with their kids.	aa	I would think so.

sd	and then he went to a baby sitter that this lady had about five other kids that she baby sat, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	So we had a lot of time together that way you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so she was always home for us

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I always, really appreciated that. Having her there you know, when I came home from school and when I worked,

sd	Because most of them, the father and mother both work, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	So you know he's not home very often.	b	Yeah.

sd	the kids I know miss that.	aa	They really do.

o	You know.	sv	a family without a father, it's, a really hard thing.

sd(^q)	I suppose they are trying to get through to them that well daddy is not home because, you know, he is out working trying to make some money for, you know, we can buy you this bike and that toy and so forth, you know.	b	Uh huh.

qy	So, are you planning on, having any children	ny	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, Then we will try.

sd	That's what my daughter in law told me. That they were going to have kids probably after two years of marriage.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so maybe they just decided that, if they wanted to have kids around the house they would just you know call one of their sisters or brothers up and tell them to send the kids over for the night.	aa	Yeah,

o	You know.	sd	Well, We really want to have a family.

b^r	Right.	sv	give them an edge,

b^r	Right.	sd	But then, a family is definitely a high priority.

qrr	or do you work or what?	sd	Well, well I am in, I am in a different situation.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I am home on furlough.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And then we go back for four years.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, we will share the job of raising the family.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	then we have decisions that we have to make that are hard about schooling, like do you want to home school your kids on a computer program you know, that kind of thing

b	Uh huh.	^q	or do you send them away to boarding school

sd	but, I found it very difficult to find good child care when I was looking for a place to for stay while I thought school,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that worked.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	but when they got older I wanted them to be in a school type situation, I think they were both three when they started where they could learn to interact with kids and, and be around kids their own age because I think that would prepare them for school also, it's real important , that they do that, that they get that preparation for school,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I wanted them to learn to play I didn't academics forced on them at an early age.	b	Yeah,

b^m	for the kids.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yes.	sd	well, I'm just recently married.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I don't have any children. Though we plan on having them soon

b	Okay.	sv	but I think, that that's probably one of the biggest difficulties,

ba	Wonderful.	b	Yeah,

ba	great.	sd	and it's nice for me because, most of the time you have so much flexible hours so that I could probably work two or three days a week, and then one or two evenings, so that if my wife does go back to work part time, there probably will be a possibility that I could stay home two days that she would go to work and that I would have to teach at night.

ba	that's, wonderful.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I think we're very lucky because just my job sort of builds in flexible schedules,

ba	That's wonderful.	sd	I can even teach on Saturdays and, and things, like that.

ba	great,	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	and one of the things they made in,

ba	that's, wonderful too,	sd	my sister in law is a clinical speech pathologist,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, she is als ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it would be three years,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I guess she took off three all together

ba	that's wonderful.	aa	Yeah,

ba	dear.	sd	and she won't do it in the summer because her kids are home from school.

b	yeah.	sd	So I don't know what they are going to do.

sv	you know that's an ideal situation,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but not many people can afford, something like,	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so she was probably twenty seven when they were married,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so she already had gotten bachelors and masters and established herself in a, profes , in a practice almost. where, you know, he then they waited a couple years

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he got himself pretty far along, I guess they didn't have kids until he was about, twenty six

b	Sure.	sv	but, I think the longer you wait the easier it is, if you have that professional occupation where you can change.

aa	yeah,	b	Yeah.

sd	but they're are just so many people out there that aren't that, lucky,	b	Yeah.

sd	because I'm a single parent,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, still am teacher,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it was really difficult to find affordable child care that was what I wanted, where I could, have piece of mind when I taught school / * transcriber spelling error "piece" should be "peace"	b	Yep.

sd	and I knew my kids were being taken, care of.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, plus I, wanted them to get something out of it, I just didn't want it to be a day where they went and slept and ate cookies and, that's it .	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and sometimes they flunk kindergarten now.

b	Right.	sd	They don't let them into kindergarten unless they can count to ten and know their A B C s

b	Sure.	sv	it's a very important part of your life

aa	I agree with that.	sd	you know, I can see that when you make that point.

sd	Well, the thing is, I teach this grade and I can see very readily the kids that didn't never learn socially how to get along with other, children	b	Yeah.

sd	and they're the ones that are having problems not only getting along with the other kids but academically, because they're should be, there's to many things in their way, / * to should be too	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they did learn to get along with other people.	b	Uh huh,

sv	and I bet if we trace back to their, early childhood we could see some, you know, times they didn't get to play or be with other kids their own age really learn how do get along with, people.	b	Yep.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I bet,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I bet you could trace all the way back .

sv	I bet you could too, because you know, kids have to learn how to get along with other people,	b	Yeah.

sv	and if they don't they just don't turn out to be really, you know, good adults or, successful adults I should say,	aa	That's true,

sd	and they daily have problems with whoever is taking care of the child,	b	Uh huh.

sd	or they switch a lot, which is not good for the child either.	aa	Yep,

sv	and it would be ideal like you hope when you have children, your wife gets to stay home,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I would have given anything if I would have been able, to stay home with my children.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yeah,	sd	because of having, you know, flexible higher education provides a flexible schedule.

b	Right.	sd	I teach a computer classes

ba	great.	sd	and I'm also, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, you can take you can teach two three hours classes on a Saturday, which means, that, you know, whole week's worth of courses

ba	that's, wonderful.	sd	so that lets you be available three days during the week, you know,

ba	great.	sd	so you be will home with your kids you know

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, by the time he got home he was so tired

b	Sure.	sd	and I think he missed a lot of, our up bringing.

b	Sure.	sd	You know, my mother

b	Uh huh.	sd,o@	it's funny I don't think she had to work until we started school I think teenagers become much more expensive . / * 2 slash units?

bh,sd,o@	don't they though that's what I have right now , * Seems like a slash should be placed after "though" thirteen and a sixteen year old.	sv	It's probably costing you a fortune.

sv	they really are expensive,	sd	My goodness, if you want them to be able to drive the car, the insurance bill.

sd	most of the area where we live in most of the kids have cars.	b	Oh.

sd	So, you know, right now I'm looking for a little truck for my for my son,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I can afford it,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, you know, I just look forward to him helping me out because I for years just car, drove in carpools all over the place	^2	Carpools,

sd(^q)	and, And it will be nice just to be able to have him say will you go to the store, will you take his sister somewhere, something like that.	b	Yeah,

aa	That's right.	b	Yeah,

sd	It, does for ever.	sd^r	it lasts a long time.

qy^t	You think we've talked a long enough time?	o@	Well, normally they come in, * slash error cause they'll come in in ten minutes normally and stop us. / * slash error

qy^d^t	in ten minutes, you have to talk that long.	ng^t	Well, you don't have to

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	you go the length

b	Oh.	sd^t	Depends on how old the tapes are at that time.

bk	I see.	b	Uh huh.

bk^r	I see.	b	Yeah.

qw	where are you from?	sd	This is Baltimore, Maryland.

sd	my gosh, I'm from, Plano, Texas which is outside of Dallas.	b	Yeah,

sd	because that's where T I is .	aa	Uh huh,

sd^t	I guess we're supposed to talk about music.	aa	Okay.

qy	are you a musician yourself?	na	well, I sing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't play an instrument.

qr	do you sing in a choir or a choral group?	ng	not right now.

qw	What kind of singing do you like to do?	sd	pretty much anything.

qrr	or have you studied?	ny	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	A long time out, all through college and everything I was in the choirs.

b	Right.	sd	And I've had some classical vocal training.

bh	really?	ny	Uh huh.

qr	did you do that in, Texas, or somewhere else?	nn	No,

qw	Whereabouts?	sd	in Germany.

sd	and now for about the last eight years I've sung in a church choir here, in Texas.	b	yeah.

sd	And, so I enjoy, just the chorals singing a lot, as well.	b	Uh huh.

qr	are you a soprano, alto, or,	sd	Soprano.

qr	Do you have a particular composer that you like or, a particular type ?	sd	as far as opera goes, I'm, I think most fond of Verdi.

qy	have you ever done any, if, if you had done MADAM BUTTERFLY.	nn	No,

b	Yes.	sd	but, that's, Puccini, I think,

sd	and, it was really wonderful.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, so, it was quite popular.	b	Yeah.

qy	so, have you ever wanted to, like guitar or piano or ,	aa@	No. I think it would be nice if I played the piano.

sv	I think piano is always good background,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but neither of them stayed with it .	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the other one the boy is, guitar and percussion,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, I'm sure that for you, it would have been great to be able to accompany yourself, just for practicing and so on.	aa	yeah.

qy	Do you have any other kind of music that you like?	sd	I like to listen to all different kinds of music.

sd	it might be rock, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was just, he said that just about what you said, that he just liked all kinds of music.	b	Yeah

sd	And that was neat for me to hear that somebody is,	sd	There's, you know, some of the really totally country stuff, I don't really particularly like

qy	do you have any plans to, do anything with your music in the near future	sd	Well, I have like, we,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I don't really know how to go about it without having a degree

sv	and, that's often a good way to get back into it again.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you get to know you know, people socially as well as in a musical setting,	b	Uh huh.

sv	so that's always fun.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, and I think we sing better because of that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think, you know, I think we sing more like, people who trust each other , which is really nice.	ba	That's good.

qw	So, whereabouts in, Texas are you, if I could ask?	sd	I'm in Flower Mound.

bk	okay.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, we're just not too far apart, actually.	aa	Yeah,

sd	so I'm always asking where in the state, you know, the person is from if they're in Texas.	b	Yeah.

qy	do you have a family?	na	I'm married.

qrr	or you know, if you had, other musical people in your family.	br	I'm sorry?

qy^d	if you have other people in your family who are also musical.	na	a little bit.

qy	were your parents that musical?	ny	Yeah,

sd^t	But, I'll bet we've done at least five minutes.	sd	Probably .

fc	Well, I've enjoyed talking with you, Becky,	fc	Okay.

fc	and, maybe we'll talk again.	fc	All right,

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	and we try to stick to it .	aa	I know.

sv	That's the kind of things that throw you off.	sd	we do ours more monthly than long range.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and when he gets paid, I pay all the bills.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And out of his check they take a savings

b	Yeah.	sd	So, as far as extra savings, we really don't have that much extra to save.

b	Yeah.	sd	his check, once a month, pays all the bills.

b	Yeah.	sd	and it works out real well that way.

b^r	yeah.	sv	but budgets are horrible.

sd	and so we pay all of the little bills, one paycheck and then like the mortgage and the electric bill, you know, those big bills the second second pay	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then, again, he does have a savings that comes out, you know, for Christmas and stuff, that kind of thing.	b	Yeah,

sd	that kind of thing.	aa	Yeah.

sd	But it's nice that it's there, you know.	b	Yeah,

sd^r	It's nice that it's there.	aa	I know.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, of course, the cost of living keeps going up so much.

b	Yeah.	sv	Groceries are outrageous

sd	That's kind of how I felt when I was working because it seemed like we spent more.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Then a lot of it was going to, daycare and that kind of thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I don't know why	sd	Well I know that since I do work, I buy a lot of quicker cuts of meat and, well the frozen things for the microwave and things like that.

bf	you kind of try and buy bigger quantities.	sd	And I'll stop by the deli and pick up, chicken or whatever. Where if I did not work, I'm sure that the grocery bill could be managed a lot, better.

bf	you could take a little longer. And just watch a little bit more I guess.	b	Yeah.

sd	It just seems like we save a little bit more whereas, where I was working,	sv	Well, I'm sure you do.

b	Oh.	sd	But in the summer he's still young enough that I cannot leave him by himself.

b	Yeah.	sd	So in the summer I have that extra

b	Yeah.	sd	and that's usually movies one day, skating one day .

b	Yeah.	sd	Swimming one day .

sv	It adds up.	aa	Yes.

sv^r	It is,	sv	But you know, if they're going to be in daycare then they need to have some activities other than just being there.

b	Uh huh.	qy	do you have two children?

sd	and the other one's two and a half,	sv	Well they're expensive too. just the outgrowing of their clothes

aa	Yes .	sv	so I'm sure the budget,

sd	and it does add up.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	Although the insurance we had was good, when Thomas was younger. A lot of the stuff had to be paid up front

sv	Well, that's, that's hard.	aa	Yeah,

sd	But I'm enjoying my stay home for the little time that I can .	sd	I would too.

sd	and that's what's so sad	sv	Well, you probably wouldn't want to do it forever.

qy	do you have any pets?	ny	Yes,

b	Oh.	sd	but I had to replace it with something that the kids could carry.

b	Oh .	b	Yes.

bf	Instead of being carried .	aa	Yes,

b	Really.	sd	so I called four or five dog trainers because I don't like the little dogs.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and I asked them, you know, these are the ages of the kids, what do I get.

b	Huh.	qy	Do you know what that is?

sv	They're cute.	sv^m	They're cute.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	She's like fifty five pounds.	sd	Well, actually, you know, that's the breed standard for females.

qy	Is it?	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That is not breed standard.

b	Huh.	sd	Fifty five is the minimum

b	Uh huh.	sd	You cannot show your retriever if it's, you know, a hundred plus pounds.

b	huh.	ad	So don't say she's small, just say she's perfect.

sd	Well, she's got a brown nose instead of black too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Which makes her, I guess, unshowable, even if she had papers which she doesn't	aa	Yep.

sd	and she was a lot of fun.	sd	Well, they are the ultimate dog to have around kids so long as your kid is not scared of a big dog, because I had a retriever, actually I had a retriever Irish Setter cross. Which is a really nice animal

b	Oh.	sd	and fortunately it was just like a retriever

sd	I bet it had a pretty coat too.	sd	It was gorgeous.

o@	Huh uh. * slash error Yeah. / * slash error	sd	Since they've become so popular you get what I call backyard breeders. Which is probably where yours came from. People that don't know what they're doing, and they breed them, you know, for a certain characteristic.

b	Yeah.	sd	when I bought my last purebred retriever I mean I looked all over because I wanted one that still looked like a retriever, you know, the short to the ground, stocky, golden, trainable, tractable, quiet animal that could hunt and still be in the house.

b	Right.	sd	And I ended up getting one that, came out of a, a hunting stock because I wanted one that could still perform like a retriever did.

b	Oh.	sd	And I've seen an awful lot of lately really dumb, dumb retrievers

b	Yeah.	sd	but I really figure right when it becomes really popular that it's going to be ruined.

sd	and I wonder since both of them are having them if it's some kind of breeding problem.	aa	yeah.

nn	Huh uh.	sd	It was bred out of several different retrievers,

b	Oh.	sd	But they selectively culled those litters, I mean, for many hundreds of years

b	Yeah.	sv	On the other hand, you know, they sure created a wonderful breed, I mean a wonderful breed.

sd	we looked at some of the shepherd mixes and the puppies weren't very, social and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And that, was mine.	sd	Well, I tell you, you know the German shepherd is the classic case of what I'm talking about because in America that's called a Rin Tin Tin phenomena.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Only in America is there a dog called a German Shepherd.

bh	really?	sd	That dog is bred out of three European dogs. The Belgian Tervurien, a German Skutzhund, and a , I always forget the third one. I can see it.

b	Oh.	sd	And there are distinct breeds in Europe.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And everybody wanted Rin Tin Tin.

b	Oh.	sd	That said anything that is a Skutzhund, a Tervurien and, that's the other one. Alsatian, any inner breeding of that can be called a German shepherd here.

b	Huh.	sd	And what happened is, is that people wanted this shepherd to shepherd and protect.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And even, police corps which started, you know, finding other breeds to use because this, this thing known as a German shepherd here, its personality and its dependability and its reliability was just terrible.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's the Alsatian that's the kid's dog.

b	Huh.	sd	But you'll see,

b	Huh.	sd	This is bred for,

ba	Wow.	sd	Because they were looking for this disposition.

qy	Do you sew at all?	ng	I used to,

bh	Did you?	sd	I sewed, you know, in high school

b	Oh.	sd	And, my sister sewed

b	Oh.	sd	and then just in the last, you know, ten or twe , I just haven't sewn anything.

sv	and the quality is sometimes so poor that, it really is worth while to sew.	b	Yeah.

aa	Right an,	sv	now it's a little more expensive to make it, because, you know, you start paying the price for the patterns and the material,

b	Yeah.	sv	but it's still such better quality that I think it's worth it.

sd	and the patterns have gone up tremendously, too, the prices for them, you used to could get, you know, a pattern for two or three dollars, now, they're like, you know, five, six, seven, eight.	bh	You're kidding me.

sd^e	I'm not.	sd	See I can remember paying seventy five cents for a pattern .

sd	the cheapest ones now are like maybe, four or five dollars, six, seven	b	Uh huh.

sd	they get up into twelve and fifteen and, on like that.	ba	Good night.

sd	I wish that I had started sewing, you know, when they were younger.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I didn't like the way it looked so I'd never wear anything.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, it really makes it look professional	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I've taken some classes here in, Dallas.	sv	Well and that always is helpful for starters.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know you have to have something that kind of gets you on the right track of where you're going.

sv	there's just so many people sewing now days.	aa	That's true.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Well do you do anything el ,

sd^e	I'm not that talented.	sd	see, I've not ever been a real craft type person.

sd	I have a sister that can, crochet real well, or knit, I guess I mean knit.	b	Yeah.

sd	And she knits things like hats, and, sweaters, you know .	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I asked my roommate if she would teach me how to crochet granny squares.

b	Oh.	sd	and I started crocheting a king size bedspread for a guy that I was dating at the time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And when we broke things off,

ba	my goodness.	sd	One of these days I keep thinking I'm going to finish it because it would make a really pretty bedspread .

sd	now they have the, knitting machines that will do it for you.	bf	Fast .

qy	Are you familiar with what a Serger is, the Serger Sewing Machine?	ng	I don't think so.

sd	and then we'd finish the edges,	b	Sure.

sd	and we would, trim the seams and finish the edges.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, this machine does it all in one step.	bh	You're kidding,

sd	and it cuts off the, you know excess seam allowance.	sv	Well that takes all the work out of it.

sv	And, it really makes it look professional.	ba	Well, how neat.

sd	and it doesn't really,	b	Uh huh.

sv^r	But, the Serger really makes it look professional.	ba	Well that's neat.

sd	I paid like about eight hundred dollars for mine,	b^m	For the machine,

aa	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, since I bought it and paid that much for it, I guess I'd might as well get some use out of it.	bf	You have to learn how to do it.

sd	I'm going to have to do it.	qy^g	Otherwise, they hold it over your head forever, right .

na	Right.	^q	Now I bought you that machine .

b	Yeah.	qy	Do you paint or anything like that?

nn	No.	bf	Never.

sd	I play the piano.	sd	so do I.

bf	you do.	sd	well I have one here,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my folks gave it to me,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I'm not great,

sd	and, I played for the choral club in high school	b	Yeah.

sv	and, you know, you get rusty.	aa	You do,

sd	but I'm rusty now.	sd	Well, I figure it takes practice

b	Uh huh.	sd	By the time I put my kids in bed at night, I don't want to do anything.

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, I've worked all day

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't want to do them sometimes,

b	right.	sd	So, I try to save that for the weekend.

sv	Well, sewing does take an awful lot of time, takes an awful lot of time.	sd	Now the part about sewing that I never liked was laying out the material and the pattern and cutting it out.

b	Yeah.	sd	and my mom wanted some pants,

b	Yeah.	sd	But I hate laying out material and trying to get the most out of the material and, make sure it's on the right lines and not on the bias.

^2	on the, right on the straight grain, and all that stuff,	aa	Yes,

sd	that's, that's the part that I don't like, too.	b	Yeah.

sd	even the cutting I don't like.	qw	Well what are some of the other features on this machine?

sd	it has four threads instead of, the regular basic two threads.	bk	okay.

sd^e	you can either use three or four of the threads.	bk	okay.

sd	and it's the loopers that form the edge, you know that edge finish.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you can use all kinds of different, textures of thread.	bf	So it has the ability to do just about any type of sewing you want to do.

sd	you, you need it to do things like button holes, and, seams that need to be done on the sewing machine.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but there are other things that a regular sewing machine does that it doesn't do. Like you can't top stitch with it.	bk	okay.

sd	It will also do a rolled edge,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Gee, it's just so versatile,	sd	Well I'm going to have to go check it out.

qw	What part of the country are you in?	sd	boy, this is going to be tough, I'm in Plano .

ad	Well, we can, complain together or swear we can complain together about the humidity .	aa	Exactly.

ng	I wouldn't think,	qw	what part of Dallas are you from?

sd	Far north Dallas .	b^m	north Dallas.

sd	about a half a mile from Plano .	ba	Well, jeez.

sd	So we're in the,	qy^d	Well then you've been getting quite a bit of rain also.

sd^e	it's been very, very rainy, I know.	bh	How about that.

sd	and when we first lived here, we were in Garland, East Richardson, and, doesn't seem like it was quite as humid.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, it's a lot colder too.	b	Huh.

sd(^q)	so, said, Here, here's a g ,	bh	How about that.

^q	here we are again.	ba	That's great.

sd	but, I just don't remember the humidity.	b	Right.

sd	Actually, though, it was a lot rainier here in the winter, we came back last August.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's just a lot rainier than I remember it, all through the seasons, you know.	b	Sure.

sv	I really do think that's part of it.	b	Huh.

sv	It's just like down here, when people here think it's a hundred and six, people up north think it's a hundred and sixty down here.	b^m	A hundred and sixty.

sd	I'm making that up.	b	Uh huh,

sd	You know, when it's only like ninety five.	b	Sure.

sv	it's just like up there, when you hear it's forty below, it's probably really only five below.	b	Right.

sd	well, probably what Arizona used to be like, you know, it's just dry and cool,	b	Uh huh.

sv	so it's not what you think it is.	aa	True.

qw	Where did you move here from?	sd	Colorado.

sv	you could talk about that's, that's a strange state for,	aa	sure, I'm I'm very familiar,

bk	there you go, okay.	sd	So, I'm, quite familiar with how it is up there,

aa	This is very true.	sd	And it's always snow, you know,

sd	well actually, the summers up there, we thought, were the most beautiful time of the year.	aa	yes.

sd	and that's probably one of the stranger things, when you see the air inversions, and then you go into the mountains	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it just was a very mixed bag in terms of Colorado.	aa	sure.

bh	Isn't that strange?	sd	So it's pretty amazing, it can be that drastic in just a short distance .

qy	are there tornadoes in Colorado, yes or n , I don't,	na	it's getting to be more and more of a possibility.

b	Yeah.	sd	It used to be no problem, just because it was such a rugged terrain and with trees everywhere,

sd	in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania, they've even had, I'm going to say, mini tornadoes for lack of a better word.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That was unheard of, you know, twenty years ago.	b	Right.

sd	so I don't know what's happening, if it's, you know, we are, the greenhouse, I don't really know.	aa	Yeah,

sd	it just seemed a little bit more pleasant in terms of the atmosphere, you know.	aa	Sure,

fc	You too.	fc	Good bye .

fc	Okay.	fc^r	Good bye.

sv	Well in Atlanta, Georgia you probably have a lot more crime than we have here in Patterson, California.	am	could be.

sd	this little city is only about eight thousand people.	b	Huh.

sd	But like, I lived in Oakland, until just recently	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, Oakland, California, God, they've had like, sixty seven murders so far this year compared to like, forty at this time last year.	b	Yeah.

sd	So it's really bad there.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's all related to drugs it seems like.	b	yeah.

qy	Is that what it's there too?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I came from a smaller town in New York

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the city was fairly big size or not real big

b	Uh huh.	sd	every night the news is very depressing because they run down the list of how many people were shot, you know, drive by shootings or whatever

b	Yeah.	sd	and it, it's pretty bad.

sd	Like I don't know what they can do to make it better unless they just hire more policemen.	sd	Well that seems to be what they were doing

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, you know, it's very difficult.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	and you know, the more, less that's done about it the more it seems it tends to spread into smaller areas unfortunately.

sv	Well I think that if they would do something to these people that they do catch instead of just slapping their little hands	b	Right.

sv	and they would not do these bad things, you know.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Because, you know, like in other countries, man, I mean, they're really a lot stricter than we are.	aa	Yeah.

b^r	uh huh.	h	But I don't know.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	But it seems, I mean,

b	Yeah.	sv	and you know, something has to be done but just that too many people argue about how to fix it.

sd	I know when I lived in Oakland, it was just that, like, I definitely wouldn't go into certain areas of the city by myself.	aa	sure.

sd	and then again some areas I wouldn't go by myself after dark you know.	b	Right.

sd	But down here, in Patterson, well like I say, it's so small that you can go anywhere.	b	Yeah.

sd	But just, like twenty miles away see in Modesto, they have, those gangs and things over there.	b	Right.

sd	In Sacramento also, they have, drive by shootings it seems like all the time.	b	Yeah.

h	So, I don't know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I just don't know what they can do you know.	aa	Yeah.

aa	I know.	sv	And that's just ridiculous

sd	I know we've had this one lady that was attacked, you know.	b	Right,

sv	I mean, you just, you just don't know what to do anymore, you know.	b	Right.

sd	so it's not always happening at dark.	b	Yeah.

h	So I don't know.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Carolyn, I have a little miniature Schnauzer.	b	Oh.

qw	What do you have?	sd	Well, it's kind of a mixed breed that we got from the Humane Society .

sd	it's part, Doberman and part Husky .	ba	my.

sd	and being single, she's become very important in my life	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's so nice to come home and find something, or someone who's really so happy to see you.	sd	Well, my children are the ones that wanted our pet,

sd	and I'm not home	b	Uh huh.

sd	and unfortunately she's not as well trained as I would like her to be	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm not doing a really great job as a disciplinarian,	sv	It's hard to do that when you're not there constantly,

sd	and, not one mess does she make	b	Oh.

sd	I just want to kill her at those times.	b	Oh.

sd	she really is.	sd	About the only time we have,

sd	and then, course, when my children were growing up, we always had a dog, and always said it was because the children wanted the pet	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I find that I'm enjoying this one far more than I ever did when it was the children's dog,	b	Oh.

sd	in fact my children gave me this little puppy for Christmas.	ba	What a cute idea.

sd	I think so .	sd	Well, we got one one year for Christmas,

ba	my goodness.	sd	and, so that one wasn't really well trained .

b	Oh.	sd	I just didn't have time to take care of baby and train puppy at the same time,

sv	that is really probably bad timing.	aa	Yeah,

ba	yes,	sd	and that was fun,

sv	when you set a rule you have to stand by it, and be consistent	aa	That's right.

fp	Amy, how are you doing today?	fp	Fine,

sd^t	I think we know what we're going to speak about.	b	Yeah.

qw	How's that?	aa	Okay,

sv	I personally think to set a mark with the judicial system and we're talking about criminals, criminal cases that they should bring back hangings on weekends, in public places.	b	Uh huh.

sd	There is one state that does that, by the way.	bh	Really?

sd	They don't do them real often. Which is obviously the death penalty.	b	Yeah.

sv	and let's just screwing up the system.	b	Yeah.

sv^r	That's pathetic.	sd	Because they just say there's either no room in the system, you know, in the jails for them

aa	This is true,	sv	You know, it's crazy.

sd	If it's life and a day, then he's not eligible for parole.	b	Yeah.

sv	let's quit B S ing with the system.	sd	Well even if it's life, like you say, we end up spending sixty thousand dollars a year to keep some, you know, joker in there for life.

aa	Exactly.	sv	So to me if somebody has life, you know, beyond a reasonable doubt that should be it.

bf	A life for a life.	sv	You know particularly for some of these really, I mean,

sv	I mean the guy just shouldn't be allowed to even live.	aa	Yeah,

sd	about the issue about sentencing by the judge.	b	Uh huh.

sd	he was a veterinarian, and killed two, a father and a son, okay.	aa	Right,

sd(^q)	there's a certain percentage of the people there, with seventy percent of the people said, hey, they guys guilty.	b	Right.

aa	Exactly.	sv	And the victims, you know, the family of these people that have been murdered, they just have to have it dragged on for years and years before they ever get any resolution.

bf	because it's not next day they have, the, start the trial, it's X number of months and just prolongs the situation that much more.	aa	Right,

sv	and let's just get on with the program.	aa	Yeah,

sd	But as far as the sentencing by the judge, I would have to vote against that since there is a jury, because that's what the juries are for is to make the decision.	aa	Yeah,

qo	what are your feelings?	sd	I saw on one of the talk shows this woman judge, I believe from Florida,

o	Well give me a break, you know.	sv	He'd have to have his whole family up there for him to feel like he's got his peers or something,

sv	you'd have to be pretty dense,	b	Yeah.

sv	you'd either have to be in a cave not to know what's going on, or moving it to Lubbock, or somewhere, possibly is not the answer.	b	Yeah.

aa	This is true, so true.	b	Yeah,

bf	So, you're at the house you're not at the plant.	aa	No,

sd	but I wasn't sure.	aa	yeah,

co	well, I'll let you get,	aa	Okay,

qr	what are you, in favor or no comment?	sd	I'm very much in favor of gun control.

qy^d	you are?	ny	Yes

sv	Well, this should be very interesting, because I'm against it.	sd	I don't mind people owning guns,

sd	Well, you know, now here's something that, first occurred to me when they started having all these problems with these automatic, weapons.	b	Yes.

sd	now there always has been a federal law against fully automatic weapons.	sd	I believe that's correct,

sv	And, yet, the gun control enthusiasts are, preaching about the gun control and how we should have stronger laws and what not.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't understand why we don't enforce the laws we have.	sv	That would certainly help,

sd	this is a federal law, controlled by the Treasury Department. for fully automatic weapons.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, all right, now for instance, in California where they passed the semiautomatic	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	The military version, attack weapons, or something?	ny	Yeah,

qw	how is that going to affect the, sports weapons? I mean, rifles, that are automatic or semiautomatic?	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, now, I've got to admit I'm inclined to agree with you there even though I am a member of the N R A,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they, their reason being that well, if you let one little law get through, pretty soon one's going to stack up on top of another, and so forth and so on.	b	Right.

ad	And you've got to admit that Congress does kind of look at things that way.	aa	Uh huh,

qy	now did you hear about the control that they have up in Virginia?	no	I'm not sure I have.

sd	Anyone ever convicted of a felony cannot purchase a weapon.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they don't have a waiting period, because they have access to computer records concerning all these felons.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you get your gun right then and there.	b	I see.

sd	but they are the only state that does it.	ba	that's interesting.

sd	And, according to Virginia, it didn't cost all that much.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and frankly, I don't understand why a state doesn't have those records available anyway.	b	Yeah,

sd	at least records of, known felons which are available to local police departments.	aa	yeah,

sd	certainly those records are available,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and all they would have to do is expand it. To, well, connect them into a modem somehow.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and they managed to squeak out a few bucks to do it.	aa	Yep,

sd	And, it's, one hundred percent successful.	ba	that's interesting.

sd	I just heard about this last week.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they were bragging about it,	b	Yeah.

sv	they should have, have pride in this because it's a good system,	aa	Absolutely.

sd	and it's working well.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And they don't need that seven day waiting period.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because the whole idea of that waiting period was, so that, the police could check up on you.	b	Yep.

sv	those files are going to back up on somebody's desk, just some of that typical bureaucratic work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's another, thorn in my side, bureaucratics, politicians.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So anyway well, we seem to be one in favor and one against.	aa	yeah,

sv	Although neither one of us are, really dyed in the wool.	b	Yeah,

sv	well, there should be some way of checking,	b	Uh huh.

sd	now here in Texas, all you need is a driver's license.	b	Right.

sd	And, even felons can still get a driver's license.	b	Sure,

sv	well, they're not rigid enough here, in Texas.	aa	Yeah,

ad	But don't tell the N R A I said that.	aa	I promise.

sv	They're liable to tear up my membership.	b	Okay,

qy	You say you retired a year ago?	ny	Yes,

sd	I'm looking forward to it in about just over a year, myself.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I do not quite a lot,

sd	Well, I bought a motor home here four years ago	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'm looking forward to just traveling.	b	Sure,

sd	I have four sons scattered all over the country, and a few grandchildren.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I'm looking forward to just traveling around visiting them.	ba	That'd be neat.

fc	Well Charles, good luck to you on your,	fc	Okay.

fc^m	nice talking to you, too.	fc	Okay.

fc^m	Take care now.	fc	Bye bye.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like the, idea.

qw	In what way are you talking about.	sd	Well, I like the idea of voluntary support.

b	Right.	sd	I mean they might be able to, say that anyone who does that, gets certain benefits that would not be available to someone who didn't do it.

b	Right.	sv	The idea itself of service is good

sd	And I also thought that, that would interfere with college work.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, if someone were studying something, take something obscure. Somebody was studying economics, the State Department could offer to send them to the Soviet Union for two years to teach them how to run their country.

aa,o@	That's true. * Should be a slash unit Yeah / * See note above as an indep. slash unit this would be an 'ny'	qy^g	As an extreme example, right?

qw	what year are they looking at?	nd	Well, they're not.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it's sort of a topic of debate.

b	Yeah.	sd	And the people who are proconstitution oppose it on the grounds that the government shouldn't even have the right to enforce you to join the military unless the United States is actually under attack .

b^r	Right .	sv	So, mostly, it's just kind of one of those things that goes away.

b	Yeah.	sd^c	They've got a noisy line.

sd^c	I thought that was your line .	b	Yeah.

qw	what age group are they looking at?	sd	eighteen.

b^m	Eighteen.	b	Yeah.

sv	normally that would interfere with college, I would think.	co^c	Let me see if I can get on a cleaner line.

ad^c	Maybe that's part of it.	b	Yeah

b	Oh.	o	All right.

b	Oh.	sd	And, of course, this one the women would be equally grabbed

b	Right.	ad	So, if you're near that age or you know somebody who is you know, be aware of that.

b	Yeah	b	Yeah.

sd	but I do have children to think about, you know.	bk	okay.

aa	Right.	sd	You know, we only find out about that a year after the fact.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, it's another thing.

aa	I do too .	sv	it seemed dangerous.

sd	Or he's in the Dallas area.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, he's very well known around here.	b	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have high hopes for him.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean in the Democratic primary, I'm going to vote for Brown just because I kind of like Brown and his attitude.

sd	So, there's a lot of people here pulling for him.	b	Uh huh.

h	So. I don't know .	b	Yeah

qy	did you work in the, computer business, is that what you said?	ny	Yeah.

sd	my husband works for, Texas Instruments.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	And, so, that's how we found out about the Switchboard.	b	yeah.

qy	Do you work?	ny	Yes,

qo	What do you think?	sv	Well, I think that's a big part of it

aa	That's right.	sv	but yeah, I think that's a big change .

sd	Well, I've worked all the time up until just about a year ago.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I mean, I love my job.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I assume so.	ny	Yes.

b	Right.	sd	but as long as I w , you know, was going to work I was going to do as much as I could, as well as I could et cetera.

b	Right.	sd	And I wanted to stay home when I had kids.

b	Oh.	sd	And we would like two more

bf	It's real hard.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I mean even I,	sd	It's full time work.

sd	It was so hard for me to work full time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but then you give up the money.	b	Yeah.

qy	You know?	sv	of course, you know, everything you give up something

b	Yeah.	sv	But I do think that's one of the major changes. {D You know,

sd	I know.	sd	And if she worked it was part time

sd	Well, I've decided now in fact, I'm substitute teachers aid which is afar cry from my travel agent career, which I loved.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I'm there in the same school as my children, my two littler ones.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'm just really hesitating, because I enjoyed the first summer home ever, like seventeen years with my kids.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was wonderful.	b	Yeah.

sd	My kids and I, we just had a ball.	sv	and I think,

sd	Of course, their ages, they are almost seventeen well, sixteen, fourteen, eleven, and nine	b	Oh.

sd	and we are just running every direction	sv	But see, it's such an important time to be home. You know.

aa	It is.	sd	And that, was important to me enough,

aa^r	It is.	sd	you know, my husband was raised,

b^m	Always worked.	sd(^q)	and he's like well, you know, what's the big deal about being home, for your kids.

b^m	What, yeah.	sd	Well, as our kids are getting older, you know, he sees it more.

b	Right.	sd	or, she was there to take you,

b	Right.	sd	and I want to be able to do those things

sd	You know, sometimes I'll have the cookies ready when they, come home	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm very happy to be staying home.	ba	I think that's wonderful.

sd	But again I miss, the .	qw	So, where do you see, us changing in the future?

sd	I don't.	sd(^q)^t	Well, see that was one of the things the question I think is, you know, what changes do we see

o	Right.	sd	and I'm not sure I see it go anywhere.

bf	If we want, extra clothes, the extra car, the extra,	aa	Right.

sd	The thing is, when a woman does work, then there is the clothes to buy,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then there is the gas,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then there is the lunches and then the day care.	sd	The day care eats, me alive.

sd	day care.	sd	You know, I pay four hundred fifty to five hundred fifty, a month for two kids .

b^m	for two.	sv	They would eat you, alive.

sv	It's almost hardly worth it for you, to work until they get in school.	aa	I know.

qy	Are you a teacher?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, so I feel good about them being there

b^m	It's not the same.	sd^r	It's just not.

sv	and it's terrible for divorced women you know, who are forced to work who maybe don't have a college education.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and I could get a real good paying job, if I wanted to, you know, in fact, I still have offers, you know, please come back,	b	Uh huh.

^q	and we'll pay you this .	b	Sure.

sd	My kids, we've seen a remarkable difference in, now that I'm home.	ba	That's wonderful.

sd	but I've been doing a lot of volunteering at the schools and playing lots of tennis .	ba	I like that.

aa	I know .	sd	Well, we're working on it.

b	Yeah.	sd	I feel like, that's good

qy	do you, think we should go metric?	no	Well, I, I don't know.

b	Yeah.	sv	obviously, if it's all compatible and it, you know, tens

sd	I remember they tried it in the seventies at one point or something	aa	Right.

sd	me too.	sd	and they were ready,

sv	push, I, it, I bet the push just wasn't big enough.	b	Right.

sv	so, you know, what I think they'd have to do would be to have both things on there for a while, and then start phasing things out	sd	So I think that's what they did at first, was that they had metric

b	Yeah.	sd	and I mean, and there's things that we've gone metric.

sd	I was just thinking, two liter bottles are what you buy and one liter bottles.	sd	you can buy that

sd	You don't buy quarts and gallons anymore of soda.	sd	you know, so that, we have little things that are metric,

^q	I went, a hundred kilometers. You know.	b	Uh huh .

sd	I would be total loss.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think, though, if there were some, you know, sort of government incentive program or something people would begin to switch over, you know,	b	Right.

sv	and, pardon my expression there, but, who would get really, you know, upset and start to complain and get all cranky and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I think in the end it would make life a lot easier for people coming up.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	It would be difficult,

sv	Well, what I think the difference between now and then might be, this is just a might, is we were the first generation that was in elementary school.	b	Right.

sd	you'd have, you know, two or three more generations that all now are familiar with the metric system.	b	Right.

sd	and, I could handle it for a while, and then eventually I'd learn,	b	Right .

sv	and I think that before, it was you know, just a bunch of little kids using it.	b	Right.

sv	and we'll sort of deal with it, I think.	aa	That's true.

sv	I mean, everything seems to be based on the same thing.	sd	Well, I was trying to think of what kind of things you'd have to change,

b	Right .	sd	When you wouldn't be five foot eight anymore, you'd be a hundred and seventy centimeters,

b^m	Centimeters.	sd	and then you'd be lighter in kilograms than you were in in pounds.

sd	But I wonder if,	sv	So all the dieters would be happy .

b	right .	^q	I only weigh sixteen today.

sv	like from now on all licenses would have that, rather than going back and changing everything, you know, all new licenses as of nineteen ninety two would have it or something.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	I know, though, at the amusement parks, they say if you're under forty two, inches or something. You can't walk in here.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	see, what some of them is like, you know, they say if you're not taller than this line.	aa	Right.

aa	That's right.	^q	Just so you'll know,

sv	It would be a neat case where like, where kids taught the parents, I think, you know.	aa	Right.

no	But I don't know.	sd	I, I don't think they are, because our measurements started in England,

b	Oh.	sd	all that began back there,

sv	I mean, it seems like like, like, like sort of stupid.	b	Right.

sv	and we're supposed to be, you know,	^2	We're the trend setters in the world.

sv	and now we're backwards.	h	I don't know.

sv	I, I would think, I mean, a, a base ten system as compared to a base twelve system makes a lot more sense.	b	Right.

^h	let's see,	sd	Well, pounds,

sd	I just sort of make it up.	sd	See, and I don't understand liquid ounces and fluid ounces.

sv	those wouldn't be a problem.	sv	It's not like it's really entrenched other, you know.

sd(^q)	I know things like, you know, a pint is a pound the world around or something.	b	Right .

o	I promise.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	we opened a jelly bean business.	b	Oh.

sd	we didn't bo , we didn't bother buying a scale.	b	Right.

sd	We'd go out and just buy, you know, five pound bags of sixteen different flavors, put it in plastic shoe boxes and, and then sell them for x amount per pound or quarter pound or something.	b	Right.

sd	and he got the measuring cup and just measured, I think a cup or two cup, whatever is a pint.	qy	Did you ever check it to see if it really was, a pint?

sd	If anything, we were actually in favor of the consumer.	b	Right.

sd	but that was our general tendency anyway.	sv	you all are nice business .

sd	we really didn't, make, you know,	b	Right.

sd	I think we were only making seventy five dollars each profit at the end of the year. You know, after an entire semester,	b	Right .

sd	but we had a hell of a lot of fun doing it.	sv	Probably ate all your merchandise too.

sd	and we had another friend, the physics major again, he wasn't he wasn't aware of jelly bean physiology, I guess,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and some snow fell into one of the cartons.	b	Oh.

sd	And basically what we had, sort of non coated beans at that point.	aa	Yeah,

h	I don't know.	b	oh.

o	Okay .	b	Okay Carol.

sd	I know in here, downtown Dallas, I mean you drive by and you can see it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, they'd have their smog alerts and where you'd have to stay indoors for so many hours with an air conditioner.	aa	Surely.

sd	And, of course, they don't have that here in Texas	qy	You mean they don't have the smog alerts?

sd^e	not in Te , well not in Dallas, that is.	b	Right.

sd	We're going there tomorrow.	bh	really .

ny	Uh huh	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I was born in L A

sv	you do then.	sd	the worst city in the world is actually, Mexico City.

qy	Is it really?	ny	Yes.

sd	I would not imagine that.	sd	The worst one for smog is Mexico City.

b	Huh.	sd	The most polluted city in the world .

ba	You learn something every day.	b	Yeah.

sd	I've seen that.	sd	some things they do, one of them is they're using corn in fuel.

b	Huh.	qy	You ever heard of that?

nn	Huh uh.	b	Yeah.

nn	No .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	that's one thing that they do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	unfortunately, it still contributes to global warming cause, you have to, you know, wipe out forests to grow corn and things like that.

aa	that's true.	sv	It doesn't make sense.

^g	Right?	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	Drive cars with catalytic converters, and all that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, they're looking at where you have a battery operated car basically,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So the engine kicks on when the batteries need power

b	Uh huh.	sd	Interesting thing about I mean, about battery powered cars is when you're at a stop light, you're not using any energy .

ba	That is good.	sd	Unlike a car where it's running.

b	Yeah.	sd	A electric car it's on demand.

b	Yeah.	o	Basically.

b	Huh.	sd	You don't have to shift .

b	Oh.	sv	Very interesting.

sd	maybe it was C N N where they were demonstrating that. Or something similar to that.	b	Yeah.

b	Huh.	sd	And Ford and General Motors and all those compete.

qy,am,o@	was that something * Seems to be an indep. slash unit maybe it was. / * See note above	aa	Right.

h	I don't know.	sd	G M, Chrysler announced that they're going to, they're,

br,o@	Huh? * Should have a slash Huh. / * See note above	b	Yeah.

sv	and they're very expensive too. .	bf	To operate, yeah.

aa^r	Yeah.	sv	Kind of interesting so see.

sv	Because if they want people to convert, you know. They should make it worthwhile.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but some days it's very nice here downtown	b	Uh huh

qy	Were you there at a?	sd	I wasn't there too long ago.

sd	Cause I haven't been there probably ...	qy	Well, you know, going over the hills, you know, coming into the valley? .

ny	Yeah.	sd	You can see that horrible, horrible brown haze.

sv	Now then I think that	b	Uh huh.

qy	are you there?	ny	Yeah,

qy	Do you have any one that has been in a nursing home?	sd	well, only my grandmother, but for a very short time.

b	Yes.	sd	physical therapy was there and whatever,

qw	I mean, what can we do,	b	yeah,

sd	of course I'm old enough to remember when the family or the church took care of all of this.	b	Yeah.

ad	no, you tell me how you feel about,	b	Yeah,

sd	I worked with an agency in West Texas it's where they really started this concept of Meals On Wheels	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think it's such a valuable thing for our elderly.	b	Uh huh.

sv	If they didn't have to, you know, go into a kitchen	b	Right.

sd	she didn't want to live with either my sister or me	b	Uh huh.

sd	as long as mother was, you know mobile and got her food,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she was with people with whom she enjoyed.	b	Yeah,

b	Sure.	sd	But when the time comes, and she can't do things

ba	Yes, sir.	sd	but if she wants to go to a meal, she can go down the hallway, to a room where there's a cafeteria

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there's other people there,

sd	Being a widow I find that eating alone is one of the hardest things I have to do.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I am finding it extremely hard to adjust to.	b	Right.

sd	So, mother had the little kitchenette	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she could do all these fine things that she just, had a microwave, had to pop her popcorn.	b	Right.

sd	Now this is wonderful.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But when it came time for a full meal, then mother was able to go with people and enjoy.	b	Right,

aa	I think so.	sd	I mean, see, I know that my grandmother would like to stay in her house,

sd	I'm in favor of it.	sv	That doesn't necessarily mean you're controversial.

sv	but, I still feel that it could be a deterrent to crime. Particularly with the increase of serious crime that's going on now.	sv	Well, I think that those crimes which are punishable by the death sentence, need to be reevaluated.

b	Okay.	sd	I think there are other crimes that could easily draw the death penalty and not make me feel bad at all.

sv	I think,	sd	Crimes against children is one of them.

sv	any crimes against person, I feel, there should be more than a slap on the hand, and being sent to prison and being released in, two or three years.	b	Yeah.

b	yeah.	sv	You know, if you kill, you lose your life.

sd	I don't see a thing wrong with that.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think there's, someone that's on trial right now here in the Dallas area,	b	Uh huh.

sd	a young lady was killed sometime back, a young girl. A personal trial and the reporter was asking a stupid question of the people outside. / * Shouldn't the continued statement end after "A personal trial" and a new slash unit begin?	b	Uh huh.

^q	Well, how do you feel about this?	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, you know , how do they feel about it, I'm sure that, they want it over with / * Seems that a slash should be placed after "feel about it"	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they want the person punished and punished, properly.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Yes.	sv	Innocent people could do that,

sd	Well, I feel like the cost of someone who's quoting figures made the cost, at like thirty thousand dollars, a year to keep someone in prison.	b	 Uh huh.

sv	And, well, the problem there is they're not keeping the right ones in prison in many cases.	b	Uh huh.

sd	There are more, and more instances being on the news,	b	Sure.

sd	or this individual was out on the streets, on probation or parole and killed someone else. Or, seriously injured someone.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think then that a life sentence to restitution is appropriate.

aa	Yes.	sv	I think he should spend the rest of his life working to support that individual or the family of an individual. who has been harmed you, you know.

b	Yeah.	sd	People who kill policemen.

sv	Here again, anytime anyone goes out with a gun in their hand and crime on their mind the opportunity exists for someone to get killed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now I'm not in favor of gun control to the degree or anything because, there are uses for guns which are noncriminal	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it seems that the criminal element are the ones that are using them. aside from domestic disputes, husbands shooting wives or vice versa.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But these individuals, if they have a gun with them, I think that the sentence should be even longer than if they don't.	ar	I don't agree with the length, of the sentence though.

sd	Well, Well, but here again, if a matter of expediency, part of these costs like the people on Death Row is that their appeals can take years and years.	sv	I think expediency is the answer.

sd	I know there's a law, I believe, that it's automatic appeal if it's a death sentence.	b	Uh huh.

 sv	Well, I think that automatic appeal ought to take place, within a reasonable length of time, say six months.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And a decision be made and not drag out in the courts for years, because of misplaced commas or whatever technicalities, there might be.	b	Uh huh.

sv	there's got to be a, there's got to be a time limit.	sv	you can appeal it once.

^2	a legit, legitimate appeal, not a technicality, of, if, they're not arguing that the guy or woman committed the crime.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	They're arguing over, well, were his civil rights violated because, someone didn't file the proper paper at the proper time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Those are the things that have caused them to drag out I think.	aa	That's right.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, you know the guy is guilty.

bf	He didn't see his, lawyer as quickly as he should have, or some, some Mickey Mouse type thing like that.	b	Uh huh.

aa	yes .	sv	And, I just don't think that,

aa	Yes.	qy^d	I hope you're not a lawyer .

aa	and I agree.	b	Yeah.

sd	We practice law ourselves because it's too expensive to hire lawyers, to a degree.	aa	Absolutely.

aa	There you go.	sv	But I really believe that our justice system is the best around

sv	Well, it's a case that we have a legal system which the criminals have found a way to use and a way to benefit them rather than the public itself.	aa	That's right.

sv	So that's how we get caught in this, sort of a catch twenty two.	aa	That's right.

sv	But you have to continue, to protect the innocent you're giving an open door to the guilty.	aa	That's right.

b	Yeah.	sd	that really does ruffle my feathers, at times.

aa	Yes . It does, most people.	sd	I mean I can just get so, aggravated about it.

qw	where does she live?	sd	on Rutherford.

sd	I don't know that.	sd	It's, corner of New York just west of Mayfield.

sd	so our kids probably never went to school together or anything .	bk	okay.

sd	well, I've got one in college .	b	Oh.

o	By now.	sd^t	Let's see, we're on government, whether we think it's honest or can be.

qo	What about you? .	sv	I don't think under the way the system is right now, it is.

sv	even if people have good intentions, I think power corrupts or something to a certain extent, you know.	sv	The ultimate power, ultimately corrupts.

sv	and a lot of corners being cut and the special deals available, because they're in on the know , you know .	sd	I don't know if, there is enough money that you could pay them just, you know X amount of money to keep them honest.

b	Oh.	sd	I just don't,

o	you know what I mean?	aa	Right.

sv	So maybe it's just man's nature .	sd	here in Oklahoma we had a few years ago a major, corruption on our county commissioners

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there were several counties, including the one I was in, that lost every one of their county commissioners

qw	What were they doing taking some,	sd	they were taking kickbacks.

ba	no .	b	Yeah

ba	gosh.	sd	Just a little here, a little there.

b	right .	sd	Major amount here, a major amount there.

b	Right .	sd	But I think there was something like, you know, thirty or forty commissioners that ended up going to jail.

sd	and I mean, that was our biggest scandal for the last few years, I think.	sv	that's small scale.

sv	However, the things that have gone on in the last couple of years, we can't afford too many of those, you know, the the HUD mess or the S and L.	aa	That's right.

sv	We could almost not afford such terrible corruption.	sv	The cover ups and,

sv	and it kind of makes you feel bad that the top people in your country would be lying to you like that,	h	I don't know.

b	Right.	sd	I think that's what upsets me worse than, that they're getting a little, you know, on the side that, it seems that when they get up there it's if I vote your way, what it'll do for me rather, than this is the way my constituents want it.

sv	They need money so much, because they're constantly having to run, for office again.	^2	run,

^g	don't you?	sv	I don't think that anyone has a lot of respect or faith in the government.

sd	some of them seemed like kind of, heroic people.	sd	Well I wonder if they really were, or if we just really didn't,

o	Okay.	fp	Hi.

sd	well, we like a lot of gasoline credit cards, because we like to be able to stop, you know, when we're traveling and stuff wherever there's a station,	b	Uh huh.

qo	What about you?	sd	I used to have a ton of gas credit cards,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I don't drive that much.

b	Right.	sd	But, as long as,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so, I tend to buy almost all major purchases on a credit card, when I have the choice.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I used to even use it for my grocery shopping and stuff.

bh	really?	sd	And so I don't.

b	Huh.	sd	but it's not really a credit card .

qy	is it like an automatic debit	na	it's a debit card,

b	huh.	sd	And, just, you know, many times you get out of the store faster if you pay with that than if you pay with cash.

bh	really?	ny	yeah.

sd	and then we just pay it off the next, month.	b	Right,

sd	we don't like to pay interest on the credit cards at all.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, I'll forget to pay the bill by the due date,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you know, so I thought I,

b	Yeah.	sd	But they have no proof of that.

sd	and we had to finally mail them another check.	sd	I had that hassle one time

b	Huh.	sd	and months later they were still telling me that I owed them finance charges and, late fees and things like that.

sd	I don't either.	sd	You know, kind of the ,

bf	you figure, you'll get your check back if you have to.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, I mean you can't do that,

sd	I like to use my card if I buy something through the mail which I don't do real often or something from out of state, you know, where if something is wrong, you don't want to end up having to pay for it.	b	Right.

^q	or I don't know what this is.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, that's basically what happened with us is we bought a computer,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We need to just put external cards in

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And then they said, well then don't pay it.

b	Oh .	sd	But it's sort of, you know,

bf	if you filed that letter with them then they will kind of,	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	So I learned that for the next time.

sd	I'm like you, too, about the yearly fees.	b	Yeah.

sd	and since we don't pay the interest it doesn't really matter what the interest rate, is too, just as long as we don't have to pay that yearly fee.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and those got so high we finally decided for him and me both to have a card it was like ninety dollars or something I think,	b	Yeah.

sd	but we decided let that one go	sd	Well, my husband and I both have that

b	Yeah.	sd	and I'm not quite sure what it is for him.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, in the past you know, there are some places that only take American Express

b	Yeah.	sd	and then they don't have the credit limit because I've over done the credit limit on the other card,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, with the American Express they say there is no limit.

sv	like you said, if you need that extra for charging tickets and stuff, it's more worth it.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because there are some,

sv	that wouldn't be too hard to do .	b	Yeah,

qy	Have you ever run into problems of charging up more than you meant to and having to, be stuck with that?	nn	No.

sd	We've never had, that problem either.	nn	No.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and sometimes it comes in right away

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	Because like many times I'll buy some things towards the end of the month thinking, hey, I won't get that bill until the next bill, not this bill.

b	Right.	sd	And it will come in on the next one,

b	Yeah	sd	But sometimes the is long .

sd	I guess it depends on whoever you buy it from how fast they turn them in or something.	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess they're called those pointed sale terminals where it's like it goes in the minute, you charge it.	bf	Immediately.

b	Yeah.	sd	but, that's what happened with us

b	Oh.	sd	and I got billed like the next day .

ba	gosh.	sd	It didn't matter because we couldn't have paid for it by check

ba	that's nice.	sd	You can, return it so like the washing machine we bought it in October

b	Right.	sd	And somethings like that are,

sd	and the insur , like if you break it yourself even, you know,	b	Right.

sd	if you buy something that's breakable.	bf	Or if it gets stolen or if you lose it or whatever it might be

b	Yeah.	sd	and so that's, you know, another advantage. And then even things like airline tickets you automatically get flight insurance which, hopefully you never use.

qy^d	so, you have children I take it?	nn	No,

qy	You don't?	nn	No,

bf	So, it's not a very valid topic.	aa	No,

ny	yes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	One.	b^m	One.

sd	Stepdaughter.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Ten.	b^m	Ten.

qy^d	And, you know how they are at that age, I guess. you having been ten once, yourself.	aa	Yeah.

sd	we have one.	qw	What kind is it?

sd	A Keeshonden.	bh	really.

ny	Yeah,	b	Uh huh .

sd	fuzzy little thing.	br	A what?

sd^r	A fuzzy little dog.	aa	Yeah,

sd	he's fun.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Anyway, time we spend with our children.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It seems almost as though children hate it.	qy	Do they?

sv	Time spent with Mom and Dad is probably one of the worst punishments spent on earth to them.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	h	I guess.

sv	parents are a curse that they just have to live with.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, it's interesting.	b	Yeah.

sd	But we do spend time driving in the mountains,	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you work for T I?	ny	Uh huh,

qy^d	You're working then?	ny	Yeah.

sd	With every passing day we wonder if we will be.	sd	That's what I heard.

sv	it's better to be employed.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	Especially these days where there is not a job right around the corner.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	And that creates family tensions.	aa	Yeah.

ny	Yes.	qy^d	You all don't have any other children around there?

sd	I don't have any, children.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but usually, Mom and Dad are a curse.	b	Uh huh,

sv	You know, they'd much rather be with friends,	ba	yeah .

sv	friends are cool, parents aren't.	aa	No,

sv	well I'm sure part of it is a male, female thing, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I remember whenever I was growing up, often times spent with my Dad was, just wonderful, you know, go, go hunting, or go to the races, or, any number of things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we'd have, great times,	ba	yeah.

sd	and it seems that well now the bank's not available.	b	Yeah.

sv	and what if's always rough.	aa	yeah.

sv	and, I don't know, little girls aren't interested in lot of the same things little boys are or were.	b	Uh huh.

^2	Hunting and, Looking for arrowheads, and ...	b	Yeah.

sv	but they don't like it.	aap	That's probably right.

sv	there, there is a difference there.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, girls at that age, Video games, boys and malls.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Not necessarily in that order, and friends of course.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, that's a little tough for fathers.	aa	Uh huh.

qh	So, is that quality time?	b	Huh,

sd	and we both enjoy that.	b	Uh huh,

ny	yeah .	b	Yeah

sd	and, that's somewhat fun.	b	Uh huh.

qw	how would you spend time with kids?	sd	Probably doing outdoorsie stuff, and trying to keep them away from the T V, I guess . And, McDonald's .

ba	yeah.	sd	I always said that if I had a kid they wouldn't know what McDonald's is.

b	Yeah,	sv	But , they learn from their friends,

sd^e	and amazingly a lot of times it's real easy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, a lot of times, whenever we head out of town on a trip or something, it's real easy to swing in there for breakfast.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Breakfast and run.	b	Yeah.

sv	And breakfast is a kind of a funny meal anyway,	aa	Yeah.

sv	and, kids eat funny.	sd	This lady in our bass club, we had a tournament yesterday

sv	And little girls are worse about it than little boys.	b	Yeah,

aap	or something, yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sv	to some extent the public schools, or the schools in general, influence them, the eating meat kick.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, like it's really morally wrong to eat meat or something, I'm not sure.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Of course, that's not the way I was raised, being raised in West Texas.	b	Yeah.

ny	yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Born in Denton, raised in Lubbock.	b	Oh.

sd	So, I understand about bass.	b	Yeah

sv	but it is interesting,	b	Uh huh.

sv	Every person out there should have kids, at least once or have some they can borrow for a time, because everyone needs some torture in their lives.	sd	That's the kind I like.

sd	But, Jenny is a sweet kid.	b	Yeah,

sd	we do do things,	b	Yeah.

sd	it's almost like a lot of things that were available to us as children, to go do,	b	Uh huh.

sd	The money's not available.	aa	Uh huh,

sd	You know , we were talking about how much it cost to go to Disney Land.	b	Uh huh.

sd	three hundred dollars.	ba	yeah.

sd	You know, for just not in , you know, a day or two, not including lodging and food and all that.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And, I understand Six Flags is real expensive now.	sd	I heard it's twenty bucks a whack.

ba	yeah.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Twenty bucks a whack now.	aa	Yeah,

sd	But, at least once you pay your way in there, at Six Flags ...	b	Yeah,

sv	So that's not as bad.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, Disney World or Disney Land.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, our problem is that, you know, a trip to Six Flags or Disney World or, Disney Land, or God forbid, Disney World, would take forever.	b	Really.

sd	Or you'd have to pay air fare,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, ooh, you know, for a family it gets pretty expensive pretty quick.	ba	yeah.

sd	Rent a car when you get there and all that.	sd	That's why I lucked out,

qw	So, what kind of a house do you live in?	sd	I'm in a ranch.

sd	but most of them now are up in the millions of dollars.	bh	Really?

ny	yeah,	qw	How many square feet do you have?

sd	We have got about, I'd say about twenty four hundred.	qy	Four bedrooms?

sd	we've got five bedrooms, because we built onto our garage.	b^m	Five bedrooms.

sd	a bedroom for my mother,	sd	I made a fourth bedroom out of, made a fourth bedroom out of our living room and then added what we call a sunroom to get the, you know,

b	Oh.	sd	when we added four hundred square feet to our house

sd	and that's the thing I probably like the most about it.	qw	How many stories?

sd	It's a Fox and Jacobs home.	qw	How are they built?

sd	we've been real happy with it.	b	Yeah.

^q	and this is under something	qy^d	But I mean it doesn't give you trouble?

nn	No.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	we haven't had a lot of problems with it at all.	qy^d	No cracked slab or anything like that?

nn	No.	bk	All right.

sd	We've been real lucky.	sd	And is it, a natural gas and,

b	Yeah.	qh	You know what I miss though?

ba	yeah.	sd	I sure wish they could build basements in homes in Texas.

sd	but certainly not,	qy	Can you stand up in it?

sd	I mean you really couldn't use it for a room.	qy^d	So you have a probably a more pitched roof than is typical around here.

ny	Yes.	sd	ours is pitched so shallow that you, don't get much room in the attic.

sd	I'll store all our Christmas stuff and whatever else junk up there.	bf	So, five bedrooms and two family t ,

sd	We have a living room and dining room at the front of the house,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we have the, family room, kitchen, and playroom at the rear of the house which has been really nice.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but of all the rooms in the house I'd say that was the one that's been really nice to have .	qh	Isn't it funny how families end up living in one room in the house most of the time.

sd	Probably our family room is the biggest.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean might as well not even heat and cool it.

b	Yeah.	sv	Strange.

sd	Well, that's kind of the way our living room and dining room is,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it is nice to have it because with our size of family it's nice to know that there's one that's always straight and clean if you have someone come just on the spur of the moment.	b	Right,

sd	Seventeen years.	ba	Wow.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We've been fifteen years in the house that we're living in.

ba	wow.	sd	And the principal feature I like about ours is that it's pier and beam.

b	uh huh.	qy^d	Yours is a slab I assume.

sd^e	it is.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've done a lot of electrical and plumbing and other work by myself and saved a lot of money that I couldn't have done if the house was on a slab.

ba	Well, that's interesting.	sd	But that's because it's so old.

b	Yeah.	sd	It's thirty five, thirty six years old when they used to build like that,

sd	Well, my husband wouldn't do that anyway.	aa	I know,

sd	worst thing in life is to have to repair something.	sd	I, on the other hand, do a lot too much of it

sd^r	he does ,	b	Right.

qo	What do you think about, the way the criminal justice system handles trials?	sd	Well, you know, they tell you that you get tried by a jury of your peers

b	Yeah.	sv	but, you know, it's pretty hard to try, let's say, the man down the street that's living on Social Security or somebody that's on a limited income to be tried by a jury of his peers if most of the people,

b	Uh huh.	b	Okay

b	Yeah.	b	Okay

b	Yeah.	sd	But then there's another thing that I disagree with in Texas is sometimes you have a jury of six

b	Yeah.	sd	And I don't know why they do that.

sd	and that's mostly to decide whether or not the person's actually going to stand trial.	bk	Okay,

sd	Whether they're acquitted or whether they're actually going to be accused you know, and held over for trial.	b	Okay .

sd	I know that judges aren't supposed to be crooked.	sv	Well, we know there's a few out there.

sv	if, if the judge is not of high moral standards he could be bought off, much easier than twelve people could.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's more money spent.

sd	It's not so much that, I haven't seen a lot of really bad sentences passed either by trials or by judges. What bothers me is that, they really don't mean anything.	aa	No.

sv	and yet, you know, the parole system, it's going to let them out in three years for good behavior.	sv	And it's not working either.

aa	it's not.	sv	It seems that we have more and more repeat offenders.

b	Uh huh.	aa	I know,

sv	I think they're all overcrowded.	sd	And it's overcrowded.

qw	Now what are they supposed to do?	sd	They turn them loose.

sd^r	I mean, they're not allowed to accept any new inmates.	b	Yeah.

qw^r	So what are they supposed to do with people that they need to put in jail?	sd	Well, it seems the way it's been working here's,

sd	and I really like the system of house arrest where a, someone wears a bracelet like a ankle bracelet that's a monitor,	b	Yeah

sd	they're instructed, so that, this electronic monitor is turned on at, at a certain time	b	Yeah.

sd	and it connects them up to a system where they know their whereabouts.	b	All right.

sd	and when the parole officer calls to check on them, they're instructed to turn it on and stand in front of it. So that they can see that this person is actually at home in their house doing what they're supposed to be doing	b	All right.

sv	That allows people, to actually continue to be productive members of society while they're, you know, paying back for whatever crime they've committed.	aa	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd^r	And that would give, you know,

sd	But, Something that I really don't understand is when someone goes to jail and they have a job in jail and they work, that they should,	sv	Sometimes it's pretty messed up,

sv	I mean they're in jail for crying out loud.	b	Yeah.

qh	What do they need cigarettes for?	sd	and there's another thing about the justice system that I don't like

b	Uh huh.	sd	and when you're in jail, they take you out just like they do in Alabama or anywhere else, what they call a chain gang.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they clean the city parks.

sv	I think that's a wonderful idea.	sd	And they clean the city streets.

sd	More than that.	b	yeah,

sd^r	More than that.	sd	but I know families myself that have three and four children in Lubbock that don't make that much.

aa	I know.	sd	And you know, they're not doing anything to support themselves, while they're there.

sd	The thing that, the thing that gets me is that while we're supporting them, they're working.	b	Yeah.

sd	When they get out of jail they get handed all that money.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think that while they are in jail and they are working, their wages should go,	b	Yeah.

sv	some percentage, like eighty five percent of their wages should go toward their room and board figured on a whatever basis how much it costs to actually support them for a year.	b	Yeah,

sv	And when they get out they should have I don't know, you know, some reasonable amount of money to start, like a couple of thousand dollars,	b	Yeah.

sv	Anything that they've earned while they're in prison should go back to the State except for that, you know, there needs to be some allowance for when someone gets out that they have some money to start with.	aa	Yeah,

aa	absolutely.	sd	And something else that I would, And something else that I would like to see is, victim reimbursement, you know, because they, you know, like you say these guys are in jail

sv	That's the part that I really think we need to change.	sd	and they're working,

aa	right.	sv^m	has nothing, you know.

aa	Absolutely.	sv	they know how to deal with the penal system

b	Yeah.	sd	I strongly disagree with any judge passing sentence on a person himself.

sv	I think it works much better if it's the actual jury.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	the jury gets to see the whole trial, as does the judge,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Whereas the jury may have a little, shall we say, sympathy, you know,

sv	in some, cases it would work that way.	^q	is there a basis for it.

sv	In some cases it would work the other way.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and, and I think that the jury probably has more of a right to sentence than the judge all the time.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you'd have more than one person's input on it.

sv	I think that's probably a much fairer way.	sd(^q)	And, you know, we're supposed to be, and I quote, in a democratic society.

b	Yeah.	sv	And a lot of jurors,

sv	but it would be a more responsible way to deal with it.	aa	Yeah

qy	Do you work with a company that, gives drug testing ?	na	Sort of.

bh	they do?	ny	Yeah.

qy	did they do that before you went in or what?	na	they do it before you go in

qy^g	they will, huh?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I don't work right now because my company I worked for, P I E, went bankrupt	b	Oh.

sd	but, they was getting a program set up, that for all new hires they was going drug, give them drug tests.	b	Oh.

sd	But, they didn't hire very many new hires because all the people that usually work there, you know, just stayed there because they had been there for a long, long time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, actually, I think they should do it.	aa	Yeah,

sv	You know, I don't think anybody needs anybody to be working for them that's on drugs of any kind you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	I think they should kind of warn them, like, you know, well we're going to do that or maybe tell them before they do get hired, you know that this is what is going to happen.	b	Oh.

^q	And then if you don't like it, why then, you know, you'll have to go look for a job someplace else.	sv	you have, to do randomly otherwise people will cheat.

aa	Well, I suppose you are right there too, you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then when that urinalysis came around they would be all scared.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	The only problem is, you know, if you have done drugs but you've stopped and, you do get caught, it is kind of harsh.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

qw	Or what do they do with you guys if, that you guys get,	sd	we get counseling

bk	I, I see.	sd	I don't do any drugs

sv	I think anybody that does them are dumb, you know.	bf	Crazy.

sv	and you just watch it on T V and see how it just burns your brain completely up, you know.	aa	Yeah,

qy^g	really dumb, huh.	ny	Yeah.

t1	But, . Let's see, what else was I going to say here.	qo	what do you think about our, like, other government agencies testing?

sv	I think they all should test really you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	it just seems like there is so much more of it going on anymore that, I don't know what's wrong with the people,	b	Yeah.

sv	and and then you know, they'll get out	aa	I know,

sv	and they're right back at it again.	aa	Yeah.

b^r	uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I'll see what they do, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	so they can test me all I want.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	I wonder if you take medicine if that would effect it.	b	see, that's,

qy^g	see now that that would be really unfair then, huh?	sd	I've heard of that,

o	You know.	sv	I believe you should have the testing

bf	Find out you know, if you have been taking some kind of medication and, you know, if that would effect it and everything.	aa	Uh huh,

sd^t	I think our five minutes is about up anyhow.	fc	Well, it was nice talking to you Rose.

fc	and maybe I'll talk to you again.	fc	Okay .

fc	Alrighty.	fc	Bye bye.

qy	do you have a pet Randy?	ny	yeah,

qr	A poodle, miniature or, full size?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	I read somewhere that, the poodles is one of the most intelligent dogs, around.	sd	Well, I definitely wouldn't dispute that,

qw	So, you've only known the dog, how long did you say.	sd	Well, about a year I guess.

qw	how old is the dog?	sd	It just turned two, I believe.

bf	it's still just a pup.	aa	Pretty much,

sd	I call it a, Chowperd .	b	Okay.

sd	So, she's a genuine Chowperd .	ba	that sounds interesting.

sd	but, she has the shape of the, Shepherd.	ba	that's neat.

sd	so she's a medium size.	b	Yeah,

sd,o@	But she's big enough to be intimidating, * Seems that this should end in a slash since A's next turn is an indep. clause it is a fixed female, by the way, / * see note above	aa	Most definitely.

sd	and right from day one, she was teaching me.	aa	I wouldn't doubt it,

sd	Course, I'm a little prejudiced, of course.	ba	Well that's understandable,

sd	And I spread the newspapers out in the kitchen area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, next morning, she let me know in no uncertain terms that she wanted to use the bathroom.	b	Okay.

sd	and she used them there.	b	Oh.

sd	But it wasn't too long until she, found out she could wait until I let her out in the morning.	b	Yeah.

sd	And since then, I live alone,	b	Okay.

sd	and you can see her smiling from ear to ear, she's so happy to see me.	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	And, I don't know if you get that kind of greeting or not.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	She's definitely ready to get out and run around.

sd,o@	Well my dog's an outdoor type, she does not like to be indoors. / * 2 slash units?	b	Really.

sd	she'd rather sleep outside on the cold ground at night.	ba	wow.

sd	But, I do make her come in.	b	Yeah.

sd	but during the day I have her on a leash, which is, on sort of a run.	b	Okay.

sd	I have a thirty foot cable, running from one stake to another,	b	Okay.

sd	and then attached to that is a, twelve foot leash,	b	Okay.

sd	so she can cover quite an area.	aa	Most definitely.

sd	And, she's the best, burglar alarm going.	aa	Yeah,

sd	it's the strangest thing, though, children, no matter how strange they are, or how new they might be can walk, right up to her,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but adults, if they're strange to her, or they look suspicious or something, boy she acts like she wants to chew their leg off.	ba	Wow.

sd	And I have not discovered yet where the line is between children and adults.	b	Yeah,

sd	But, she is a great comfort to me.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's a matter of exposure really.

b	uh huh.	sd	and, the dog kind of felt out of place then because she was being fed, and everything else from all directions.

bf	You mean she didn't appreciate all that attention.	ar	She really did,

qw	What's her name by the way?	br	pardon?

qw^r	what do you call the dog?	sd	it's, Mitzi.

b^m	Mitzi.	aa	Yeah.

sd	Mine is Gin.	bk	okay.

sd	As in, martini.	b	Yeah.

sd	Actually, it's Gin two.	bk	I see.

sd	but then when I went out in the world, I couldn't take her with me.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he was a real lovable type, but, definitely not an apartment type animal

b	yeah.	sd	so he had to stay home.

by	what a shame.	aa	Yeah,

o	well.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I must say it was interesting.	aa	Most definitely.

sv	I enjoyed talking about pets with you.	ba	Well that's great.

fc	Maybe we'll get together again in the future.	fc	That sounds real good.

fc	Take care now.	fc	You too.

qy	Have you done any recently?	sd	Well, we, remodeled a bathroom. which required, completely repainting the bathroom,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the other project we've done around here is, we've remodeled all our closets which required quite a bit of painting.

qrr	or did you do that yourself?	nn	No,

qy	Did you enjoy that?	ny	Yeah.

sd	We were quite pleased with the result.	qy	Is this a project you did yourself?

ny	yes,	qw	what brought about the fading of the paint?

sd	and we had to scrub the crayon marks off, of course, try and get it clean.	bk	okay,

br	Pardon me?	qy^r	Latex?

sd	and that's, what we put back on there, was a latex paint.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and one of the younger boys, when he was younger, about three years old, got a nice marker and got up on the ceiling and decided to draw pictures .	qy	On the ceiling?

sd^e	on the ceiling.	b	Yeah.

sd	but you can't it all off.	aa	No,

sd	And so, that's one of the reasons why we painted,	qw	what kind of paint did you use on the ceiling?

sd	We used a flat, latex paint	bk	Okay.

sd	and in the bedroom, as I understand, that's, one of the better type of paints to have because it's not so reflective and glassy colored,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it, turned out real, real well.	sd	Seems like, we've done some remodeling of some, rental houses that we have

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it appears as though that, in the fifties or sixties when some of these houses were built, they used a lot of, semigloss type enamel for ceiling paints

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that was a little difficult to cover with today's paints, it seemed like.

bf	you had to prime it and and cover over it.	aa	Yeah.

b	Huh.	qy	You had pretty good luck with one coat type paint?

sd	Well, I like to use this Sears, the ten year guarantee or the fifteen year guarantee.	qy	Weather beater type stuff?

ny	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	And the reason being is once I painted, I don't want to have to go and do it another five or seven years later	ba	Understand.

sd	and, we're quite satisfied with that	b	Uh huh.

sd	you mentioned painting your bathroom.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I read an article recently that, you have to be very careful on the kind of paint you put on the ceiling in your bathroom because it does tend to peel or come off because of the high moisture content in your bathroom.	aa	Yeah,

qy	And, did you have any problems with that	sd	Well, the particular bathroom that we did is a half bath,

ba	good.	sd	I've, have never experienced that type of a problem with a latex paint.

sd	neither have I .	sv	So, you shouldn't have a problem with it.

ba	good.	sv	they're pretty well refined today a lot of the paints,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and Sears is one of the better ones.

b	Yeah.	sd	I've used, many a gallon of them, myself.

qy	have you ever used an oil base paint?	na	used oil base paints for trim you know, like around doors and on doors, things like that.

qr	but. It adheres better, or lasts longer?	sd	primarily because it seems to be a little more, well, let's say

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, it, it gives you a variance even though it's the same color.

ba^r	that's good.	sd	So it's worked out pretty well for us.

qy	have you ever done any painting outside?	na	quite a bit,

b	Uh huh.	ad	make sure it's nice and brown on both sides

b	Uh huh.	ad	And then you, pour all of the oil out of the pan

b	Uh huh.	ad	Then you, pour that in there, you know, to make the gravy.

b	Oh.	sv	And it's going to be really good .

bf	That's very spicy, too.	b	Yeah,

bf	I mean these bell peppers and curry.	aa	Right,

sv	that sounds really good.	b	Yeah.

qy	is this dinner time for you?	na	well it will be in a little while,

sd	so I did cook a little, you know.	b	Oh.

sd	and so we just were recently married so we have a stir fry pan sort of like a big wok.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we do a lot of, stir fry vegetables.	qw	What kind of wok do you have,

sd	so it has a flatter bottom than a normal wok does.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then after the stir fry is over, just mix in, a little bit of, sometimes chicken broth, and corn starch and soy sauce	b	Yeah.

sd	and that sort of makes a glaze, that sticks to the vegetables,	b	Uh huh.

sd	we don't put in meat, cause I guess I'm not	b	Uh huh.

sd	so. We'll do, a lot of times vegetarian.	b	Yeah.

sd	But it's a real good meal because you have squash and broccoli and, carrots and celery and green peppers and, gee, mushrooms.	sv	that's, That sounds real good except the squash,

sd	and we put that over rice.	sd	I just don't like squash.

bf	you don't .	sd	I never did.

b	Oh.	sd	And maybe she'd have chicken or something.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'd just be,

sd	and Pittsburgh is a very meat and potato town.	b	Uh huh.

sd	recipes in Pittsburgh consisted of red meat and a potato.	b	Uh huh.

sd^r	Red meat and a potato.	ba	that sounds good.

bf	she had all of those types of vegetables.	aa	Right.

sd	See, no vegetables in my family.	ba	Wow.

sd	it was really funny.	sd	You wouldn't believe it, we even raised chickens .

bf	Well that was a real farm.	qy	You ever seen anybody kill a chicken?

sd^r	I've heard stories.	sd	And they put the head under a tin tub and chop the head off.

ad	you shouldn't be talking about this while you're fixing dinner.	sd	Getting ready to eat chicken too.

sd	we bought everything in a grocery store.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but when we got married, you know, a lot more vegetables, you know, a lot of changes.	ba	Well that's good.

aa	I think so too,	b	Yeah.

sd^r	and we came back with sweets.	ba	Ugh.

sd	We didn't bring all the healthy food back too.	b	Yeah,

sd	well that's supposed to be, the trend of the future, but, the cut back.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was really funny because they were made from yogurt and carrots.	ba	Ugh.

^q	Indian candy is not very good.	aa	right.

sd	Everything had a little bit of curry in it.	bf	The spice,

sd	It was funny, even the sweets did.	ba	Wow.

sd	You know, it had that after taste that, it was a very Indian flavor.	b	Yeah.

sd	they were very, yogurt and carrots and pistachio nuts and yogurt.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it wasn't very good.	sd	Well I might have liked some of that

b	Uh huh.	sd	I really do.

sd	I think we're,	h	I don't know,

sd(^q)^t	and they say you've overextended your conversation.	sd^t	well this is my first one.

sd(^q)^t	and it'll say you've over extended your conversation, you now have fifteen seconds to complete it.	ba	wow.

sd^t	But, I've been cut off twice.	b	Uh huh.

sd	he has one of those alarms on his car,	ba	Goodness.

sd	and it's going off.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I was going to go out and see what they were doing.	bk	Well, okay.

ft	hey thanks so much.	fc	Yeah,

sv^t	well you'll get a couple more probably.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	and she was home with two kids.	b	Ugh.

sd	it was pretty funny.	b	Yeah,

b	Okay.	b	Okay.

fc	I'll talk to you later.	fc	All right,

bf	Okay, you say you're going to buy a new car.	ar	Well no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I drove a nineteen seventy seven, B M W

b	Yeah.	sd	But I'm not interested in having any car payments,

b	Yeah	sd	But I also found a nineteen eighty Volvo, station wagon that was in just super condition.

b	Right.	sd	I mean there's not a dent on the outside body,

b	Right.	sd	it has about eighty thousand miles on it

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I think it would last me probably another fifty or sixty thousand miles.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I guess I'm kind of in limbo waiting to see what the insurance you know, company is going to do, to see whether or not I can get one of these cars.

sd	but, so I guess when we do buy another car it'll be something that we can, kind of grow into a little bit.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's tough on trips because, anytime we're getting ready to go anywhere you know, it's, like trying to put a puzzle together to make sure you get everything in the car, you know, cause it's,	sd	Well not only that, needing the room, you know, we finally ended up buying a Dodge Caravan here about two and a half years ago, because I too, have very small kids.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you know it's like you go on a trip

sd	but . You know, I'd like to do that.	b	Yeah.

sv(^q)	but, you know, the rest of the time you wonder, you know, could I use something else.	b	Yeah.

sd	if we can hold out til then, you know, I may get to where I need a something else, maybe buy a van, because they are, really, really nice for long trips especially.	sd	We have definitely put a lot of use in on ours

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my husband's been in business for himself for several years

b	Right.	sd	used to be you kept them three years.

b	Right.	sd	Well when they did all the tax law changes you had to keep them five.

b	Right.	sd	So I was trying to keep my B M W in tact, for three more years. So that then I could take the van,

b	Right.	sd	And so basically that's what I'm looking for in a used car. Something that's going to last me at least three years.

sd	Well, my wife's car is probably around five years old now,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, you know, it's getting to the point where we really need to do something with it, you know, if we're going to get anything out of selling it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We've got other bills that kind of precede, or preclude us buying, something, buying something else.	ba	Know how that goes .

sd	It just, will wipe you out every month,	aa	That's right .

sd	it's almost getting to be like the house payment, you know.	aa	I know,

b	Right.	sv	and you just almost can't find that payment anymore.

b	Right.	sd	So, I understand that, it's kind of hard to go do.

sd	I didn't know that.	sd	And we have had just wonderful luck with ours.

b	Uh huh.	sd	which drove me nuts trying to get car seats and kids, into a back seat, you know.

b	yeah.	sd	And so it's wonderful to have the room and the space

b	Right.	sd	And it is nice on long trips.

b	Right.	sd	and they come out fairly easily, so we took out the middle seat, put the car seats in the back and just had a whole area in the middle, like if we were out on open road

b	Uh huh,	sd	You know, I wouldn't do that if we were in a city, or, if there were a lot of cars around or anything.

b	Right.	sd	But it made it so much easier to travel.

sd	and even on the road she does all right for a little while because she'll sleep some,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and it was when all that bad weather was hitting,	ba	yeah.

sd	and, and we got out and played in the snow and put here back in / * typo > her	aa	Sure,

sd	and she was fine,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, you know, if there was something to where she could kind of get up and move around, like you say on the highway, or where, where it wasn't, wasn't as bad, you know, just for a little brief period of time, it would be okay,	b	Right.

sd	so, I'm thinking maybe we can do something like that later on.	ba	Well that would be good.

sd	we'll see what we can do.	ba^r	That would be good.

b	Yeah.	fc	Well, I appreciate talking to you.

fc	I ho , hope everything works out.	sd	Well, really I'm supposed to hear today

b	Right .	sd	and you know, my B M W that my husband was going forty to forty five miles an hour

o	All right.	sd	Well, we lived,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we did a lot of gardening out there, and, mostly in raised beds so we could keep the, soil nice, because basically out there it was mostly a clay soil, very hard to grow, very hard to cultivate,

ba	How fine.	sd	and we've been planting flowers that we could never plant, in San Antonio because the heat would just dry them up after, you know, about three good weeks of nice weather before the heat started

ba	boy.	sd	and, we're at the edge of a forest area, so there's a lot of pine mulch .

b	Uh huh.	sd	Just about anything you would want in Texas as a gardener is here just around us.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

ba	Wow.	sd	But, that has been the major change that we have noticed in gardening,

sd	So we're just learning the ropes here	b	Uh huh.

sd	our backyard has so many tall trees in it that there wasn't even a blade of grass in the backyard.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It just happened automatically.	qy	So do you have to get a shade tolerant grass?

sd	we planted some fescue last, fall	b	Uh huh.

sd	it doesn't look like it can withstand too much, you know.	b	Oh.

sd	and, So, but we don't,	b	Oh.

sd	like I say, there really wasn't even one blade of grass in the backyard.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And, so mostly, you know, we're not even to the point where we're getting into flowers, and flower beds or even gardens, that, we're just saying, let's get some grass .	bf	Just get grass to grow.

^q	Let's get grass so that the kids can play in the yard and not have to be worried about the dirt so much. You know.	sd	Well, when we had our house, out in Castroville, the problem with ours is that the, plots there are a third of an acre . And trying to keep grass alive during a summer on a piece of ground that big was expensive .

ba	yeah.	sd	To water it

ba	no.	sd	we were just watering all the time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so when we left, you know, the back yard had some,

b	Uh huh.	h	But, I don't know.

sd	there was no such thing as watering your lawns in Missouri.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It just happened.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we live in north of Dallas.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Plano.	bk	Okay,

sd	And so there's a lot of market up here since it's kind of the area that people are moving into in the Dallas area and big market for yard work.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	there's so much money

sd	I noticed that they're really putting in small back yards, because most of the houses have the alleys that run behind,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so we're just still at the point where we're talking about the necessity.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then when it comes to fertilize, then it would come to raking,

b	Yeah.	sv	People that were building the new homes that put those in, that was the only way to go because it was just so convenient.

b	Hm.	sd	But there is a grass that you can use that is shade tolerant,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's just a real fancy decorated boot.

b^m	Grass,	sd	and I think one of them was a blend of two types of grass that they had used.

^2	Or what it was.	sd	But I do remember they had used a blend.

sd	and there must be ten or twelve big tall trees out there so that like even if its raining, you can go out in our back yard and not get wet .	sv	but that's so neat, because so many homes don't have that.

sd	and that's what they say the payoff is	sv	It makes the biggest difference, when you have the big old trees.

aa	yes.	sv	So, that's great that you have them.

sd	Well, there are all different kinds.	ba	that's even better.

o	Okay.	b	All right.

sd	but I've heard that it's real good.	sd	My husband didn't like it that much.

b	Oh .	sd	So, the end scenes are kind of suspenseful, you know, when she realizes he's in the house, you know, after her,

b	Yeah.	sd^r	You know, why didn't she just tell hi ,

b	Oh .	qw	But anyhow, what have you seen?

sd	Well, last week, as a matter of fact, my children was on Spring Break	b	Uh huh.

sd	We went to see AWAKENINGS with Robin Williams.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we went to see KINDERGARTEN COP.	b	Yeah.

sv	and it would be to anyone because, you know, they really don't know that much about it.	b	Uh huh.

aa^r	yeah.	bf	And the drugs let them come back.

sd	and they started having real bad side effects.	b	Oh .

sd	but in time, you know, all the side effects started showing.	qw	Well, how bad were the side effects?

sd	Bad.	b	Oh.

sd	They actually went back like they were, you know,	b	Oh .

o	You know.	qo	Well how about KINDERGARTEN COP?

sd	it was,	sv	You know, Arnold Schwarzenegger is getting to be, a bit of a variety actor, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	But he's kind of branching out.

qy	as a matter of fact, Sylvester Stallone, is that his name?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	It was really good.	sd	Well, there was a movie out,

sd	I've seen that.	sd	I thought that was just great.

aa^r	yes.	sd	I even like I mean, some of the original stuff,

b	Yeah.	sd	but I still like watching him in THE TERMINATOR. and some of the other things.

b	Uh huh.	sd	TOTAL RECALL last year I thought was really good, last summer.

b	yeah.	sd	Guess it didn't last too long at the box office,

b	Yeah.	sd	but I thought it was pretty good.

sd	that's just something I just don't want to watch.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd(^q)	and I just keep telling her, how can you do that?

ba	my goodness.	sd	And she watches these really gross things you know, like, THE NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, and, you know, that kind of, junk.

b	Oh.	sd	I don't go for that at all.

sd	I guess I'm a little too scary for that.	sd	I remember when I was real little, we all went to some kind of scary movie,

b	uh huh.	o	You know,

b	Yes.	sd	You know, they tell you that kids can, you know, be impressed by all that stuff,

aa	yes.	sd	I had a lot of things that I,

ba	goodness.	sv	But I think a lot of kids, it's funny, get the same kind of fears, like there's somebody under the bed.

aa	Yes.	qw	Where do we get that from?

^q	Mama, I hear it,	qw@	 How old are they?

^q	Mama, I've seen it .	sd	but I remember, I was with a friend of mine, had, three kids,

b	uh huh.	sd(^q)	And he just bawled at the end and just she's not going to die.

b	Oh.	sd(^q)	And we were trying to say, Kenny, it's okay,

b	Oh.	sd	He just was beside himself, you know,

^g	isn't it?	ny	yeah

fc	Well, well I've enjoyed talking to you.	fc	You too.

sd^t	You know, from where I'm at. We couldn't call in.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	So I missed several days, because I was getting quite a few calls.	ba	How weird.

b	oh.	sd^t	It was discuss air pollution, causes of it and cures.

b	Yes.	sd(^q)	I was going, well .

sd^t	and he's at work,	b	Uh huh.

o	believe me.	ad(^q)	Say, well, I know it takes a fishing pole and some bait, and some water .

fc	and we'll talk to you later.	fc	All right.

na	definitely .	sd	Although at least Texas doesn't have a state income tax yet.

sd	and New York had a state lottery,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it was really a great relief when I got to Texas that I didn't have to pay that city income tax, though.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	You know, because other states quite a bi , a chunk out for, city and state taxes

aa^m	It sure does make a difference.	sd	A little more take home here .

qy	Do you live in Dallas?	ny	Yeah,

bh	you do?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I do too.	bk	okay .

sd	and then, you know too, that, taxes are less, like if you live in Mesquite.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, some people will go shopping in Mesquite at the malls out there,	sd	Or up to Collin County, somewhere that you're getting out of the, Dallas County area because, what do we pay, like eight and a half percent, something like that for the, sales tax.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Which, yeah, that really is pretty high.

qy	is it, less in Collin County than it is in Dallas County?	na,sd,o@	I think so, although I really, don't go up there too much, I mean I normally just kind of go to Richardson Square Mall, or Valley View Mall just kind of for the convenience, / * Looks like 2 slash units

sd	and you can't do that anymore.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I had a little, little, coupon special that was twenty two dollars for, air conditioning service where they, checked it and recharged it and put one pound of freon in	b	Uh huh.

sd,o@	And I couldn't believe it and the tax, you know, really hits you. * both kinds of slash error; Should be 2 slash units, I think Uh huh.	aa	Yeah,

o@	And then, * slash error I've been here for nine years. / * slash error	sv	Although I wish, you know, overall they'd try the lottery again.

qw	Really, where did you come from?	sd	well, Ohio, kind of.

bk	uh huh.	sd	but, you know, basically I went to high school and college in Ohio and lived there more years than I ever did in Michigan.

sd	My sister used to live there.	bk	okay .

b	Uh huh.	sd	But you know, when we first came down here, I really thought this place was somewhat backward, I mean, I was just shocked that we couldn't shop on Sunday.

o@	That's true, I tell you what hit me the first year I was here, Christmas eve in New York there used to be stores open, the department stores wouldn't close, * There seem to be several slash units in this turn that were not parsed that way well I'd say they closed maybe eight or nine o'clock, department stores, on Christmas eve.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it was Christmas eve.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I couldn't find hardly anything open, after five o'clock in the afternoon.	qy(^q)	Were you shocked like, no, I'm stuck I need to buy stuff.

sd	And then another shock I had well, when I went to, to buy a slice of pizza , and found out that I had to buy the whole pie.	b	Uh huh.

sd	back then they didn't.	b	Right.

sd	When I first came, no.	sv	Well the, there was other things too, I mean, I think it's taken us Yankee's influence down here, to get them to, come to the, you know, the correct decade here and century.

b	Right.	sd	I mean, you could always, be careful about that back then because, you know, if a cop stopped you then you would, you know, get arrested or what not.

ad	and talking about alcohol and beer, look at the taxes on that, and the taxes on a package of cigarettes.	sd	And people would just drink openly.

sd	I used to smoke, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I gave them up a couple years ago because I had some sinus problems.	b	Oh.

sd	a little bit more in some places.	bf	So you end up about paying about twelve dollars for a pack and two dollars of that is taxes.

o@	well, I believe it's a little more than twelve dollars for a carton, * slash error I think it's maybe thirteen or something.	b	Huh.

sd	and they really thought they were getting a big discount.	qy^d	They're cheaper there?

na	Well because, it's, you know, the Indians, I don't think they pay tax.	ba	Oh!

sd	in Oklahoma.	bk	I got you,

sd	And, it was a Indian, well it's a bingo hall for the benefit of the Indians there.	b	Uh huh

sd	There were just bus loads of people that come from everywhere else to play that bingo because it's, the stakes are higher and payoffs are bigger and so forth.	qw	Well how did you do?

sd	I won a dollar .	b^m	A dollar, well,

ad^c	Can you speak up, please.	sd	Seems like wanting to go to the Peace Corps was something that I had really wanted to do when I was young.

b	Yes.	sv	But, I don't believe they accept you you know, after you're married

sd	But they will accept you later in life also.	qy^d	they will?

sd^e	after your children are grown.	sd	I didn't know that.

b	Yes.	qy^d	Then there's no age limit?

nn	No.	qy^d*	Your kidding. / * typo > you're

sd	there was a retired plumber that went to, Uruguay I think and helped them quite a bit with concepts in plumbing, you know, providing for better public hygiene.	ba	Goodness I'm surprised.

qy	but, so, do you think that people should be required to give a couple years for the good of the country?	sd	Well, , I don't really think that they should be, it should be mandatory.

qw	Why?	sd	that just might not be something that everybody wants to do,

qy	but if it were told to us that we would find the time somewhere between our seventeenth and, twenty sixth birthday to give a year or two to the, to the country in the form of maybe building better roads or the parks service or the Peace Corps or you know, the military service or something. Wouldn't we have, maybe a better class of Americans?	sd	I don't see how that can make a better class of Americans to make it mandatory for everybody to participate.

sv	and that's themselves.	aa	That's true.

sv	And at least if you legislated, giving for a couple years of their lives or, honestly purely giving but some sort of equitable exchange, then at least the country would have gotten two years from them where, they would have given something to the country instead of taking away all their lives.	b	Yeah,

bf,nn,o@	give them your entire life for two years, no. / * I think this really should be 2 slash units, with the respective labels.	bk	Okay.

sv	it's not top wages,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it does pay.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it doesn't pay well.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	You're aware of that I'm sure.	aa	that, that's true.

^2	And Texas Instruments.	sd	Thousands, and thousands of people are out there looking for jobs.

sd	You know , in another time we had the W P A, Works Progress Administration, during the great depression, though I can't see why it was great.	ar	, no,

sd	that gave people pay that was halfway between relief which was welfare, and the minimum wage.	b	Uh huh.

^2	In trade for, money, and living.	bk	okay.

sd	Public roads that were worked on by the W P A, dams that were built by the W P A, scenic overlooks, parks,	b	uh huh.

sv^r	our national road system of highways, and roads, is falling apart.	b	Uh huh.

bf	there's a lot of work to be done.	b	Uh huh.

sd	what I'm saying is that if it were mandatory, that every person, right after graduation from high school, that were able bodied, would well, or, not give a year but trade a year,	b	uh huh.

sv	at least one not more than say three or four, then it would definitely effect unemployment.	aa	All right,

sd	Well, you know, Texas, New Mexico, Colorado, huge numbers of other western states, have no real welfare system.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but there's no real welfare system.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know, we have had some problem with that in recent years.	aa	well, yes,

bf	they wish only for the paycheck.	sd	Well, they wish for the money

bf	be it selling drugs or whatever.	aa	Right.

sd	I enjoy working.	b	Yeah.

sd	number one, I am one hundred percent for total gun control.	b^m	Total gun control.

sv	and I really feel that we have to do something in order to ,	aa	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But I think personally, that we do need some weapons available to most of the people.

sd^e	there's only one problem I have with the whole thing though, is, you know, when they do it, I think our biggest problem is, yes, the crooks and what have you are going to get weapons if the weapons are available.	b	Right.

sd	I mean there is no,	b	Yeah.

sv	there is, There is no reason for it. I mean,	sv	I don't think we should have access to those.

sd(^q)@	And, you know, when people say, you know, well, my God, they're cutting into my civil liberties and all this, no, I, I take a different stand that as long as they are available and they are so readily accessed out there, then something is taken away from my civil liberties. / * separated into an additional slash unit before no,?	b	Huh .

sv	and we've got to reduce the number of weapons that are out in the in the public.	b	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he was showing me that at a hundred yards, he kept five shots within a quarter of an inch of each other at one hundred yards.

b	Uh huh.	sd	just from a technical point of view, that interests me. Not to kill anybody with it or anything with it, but just the fact that a piece of mechanism like that could be made to be so accurate.

sd	you know, and, again, my entire family they are all hunters	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I I have no, I really have no problem with sports hunters.	b	Yeah.

sv	they seem to be losing their common sense over the issue.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think something will happen.	b	Uh huh.

qy	do you get together with family reunions	ny	Yes,

sv	that will be fun if you have not done it in a while.	sd	My aunt is planning it.

qw	where is your family from?	sd	Missouri.

bh	Is it?	sd	Southwest part of Missouri.

qy^d	So you are going to have to go there?	na	That will be where it is. if she gets it planned.

b	Yeah.	sd	I have been out of town,

b	Oh.	sd	All my aunts and uncles.

sd	Most of them is down there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have got an uncle in Louisiana and another sister here in Texas.	b	Right.

sd	It was every summer we got together.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now, my grandmother just passed away this last year.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I will probably have to take charge and do it one of these, days.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I still have elderly parents alive.

sv	Well it, It sure does.	sd	So, it takes a lot of effort to either get everybody called or written and settle on a date, you know that,

sd	We just did it you know, by word of mouth.	b	Right.

sd	You know. And, my uncle in Louisiana, he is the only one that, you know, had to travel.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we are just scattered all over the place.	ba	my gosh.

sd	But we have got a huge family.	b	Yeah.

sv	Because it is so fun.	b	Yeah,

sd	I mean, my mother has got like thirteen brothers and sisters .	aa	it is.

sd	And every one of them have five or six kids. And most of them, you know, have got kids .	b	Uh huh.

sd	It is,	b	Yeah.

sd	we had two baseball bleachers full of people,	bh	Is that?

sd	and there are still about eight or ten people taking pictures.	bh	Is that right?

sd	the last time we had one it was so fun.	ba	That is wonderful.

b	Yeah.	sd	well, we need to have another one.

sd	Well, I, we have always had ours in a park or something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Only thing is, it is big,	b	Yeah,

sd	and it is open.	sd	we have it usually at this one park because there is a pavilion there, in case it rains.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you have to have it, fairly early in the summer or it is too hot up there.

qy	In Missouri?	na	In Missouri,

sd	Well, that was part of the problem with the ones we have.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We was like eight and ten years old.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was part of the sewage cleaning system.	bh	Isn't that great?

sd	I have got a four year old.	b	Yeah.

sd	But if we could have gotten it by a lake or something, I thought that would have been much better.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	o@	But, Uh huh.

sd	I am sorry, there was, I remember now, there was like, a baby pool, just about a foot deep.	b	Yeah.

sd	We were all kids anyway .	sv	Every family has all that going on,

sd	but I love it, all the different foods, because that,	aa	I do too.

qw	So, how long did you say it has been since you all had one?	no	I do not know.

sd	so I guess it has been seven years since we have had one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And since then we have lost, well, just our grandmother.	b	Yeah.

sv	That is surprising.	sv	Well, time flies so fast,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, anyway I hope both our families get to have one soon.

sd	It has been like four years since I have been home.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I know when we had, had our,

sd	but I won't do it with the babies.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because, I have got, a four month old and a four year old.	ba	Lord.

sd	And I just quit too .	^h	I am telling you.

sd	I won't be adding any more to the family reunion .	aa	No,

sd	They are good kids though.	b	Yeah.

fc	Anyways, I have enjoyed talking to you.	fc	Enjoyed talking to you.

fc	All right.	fc	Good luck in everything.

fc	All right, you too.	fc	Bye bye.

o	Okay.	fp	Hi.

fp	Hi.	b	Okay.

o	Period.	aa	That is very true.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but, bet right this moment, you probably have several loans out

o	thank you .	sv	But, see our whole system is built on owing not borrowing.

sv	Our system shouldn't be based on owing and borrowing and all that.	aa	true.

sv	And if you want a nicer car than that, well, you save a little longer.	aa	Well, now I agree, I agree with you one hundred percent.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm just taking the other side so we'll have a discussion here.

sd	both of us had twenty thousand dollars in loans, for student loans	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they pay cash for everything they buy.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and we don't want to cut back our services from the government, because we're spoiled.	sd	Well, I have one way to suggest reducing the budget.

qw	What?	sd	Very simple.

b	Yeah.	sv	Now give them, what a week, I think we here at T I get a total of eleven a year.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that's about, three or four less than civil servants get.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Now just look at that money the government could save if they didn't have all of those days off, all those holidays.

sd	You don't even know it's a holiday .	sv	Well, now don't forget the mail is something else again.

qy	But isn't it in the federal budget?	nn	No,

qy^d	it's not part of our taxes?	nn	No.

qy	It's not?	sd	That's why the price of mailing a letter keeps going up.

b^m	That's why it keeps going up,	sd	You know, I could I can remember the days when it cost only three cents to mail, a letter.

sv	Those stamps are valuable, now.	b	Yeah.

sv	And I don't think Americans are willing to do it.	qo	Well, what about, sending all this money overseas supporting other governments, third world governments.

sv	I mean, it doesn't work, I mean.	sv	Well, in so many cases, it's not a loan,

qy	Do you understand?	nn	No.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, World War Two debts have never been repaid.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	And said, well, we'll cancel it just like they did to that Polish debt here, last week.

b	Yeah.	sd	half the countries of the world simply canceled the Poland debts to help them.

sd	My opinion's the latter.	b	Uh huh.

qw	or I mean, what do you think long term?	sd	Well, I don't believe in a single government or a single control for the world.

b	Uh huh.	sv	that's asking for trouble.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean you could travel from one coast to the other here in the U S and find a tremendous differences between the peoples.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, therefore, I don't believe there could be a single government for the whole world.

b	Uh huh.	o	sure,

b	Uh huh.	sv	That's a big laugh,

b	Uh huh.	sv	We've got too many, immigrants.

sd	I know.	sd	They don't call them immigrants anymore,

bf	Different ethnic groups .	aa	Yes.

sd*	I know what your saying. / * typo your > you're	sd	My grandfather came over from Lithuania back, just before the turn of the century

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, as a matter of fact he's a draft dodger.

b	Uh huh.	sd	He, was supposed to serve some time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he came back.

qw	which ones have you seen lately?	sd	I just sort of blanking tonight.

sd	THELMA AND LOUISE,	b^m	THELMA AND LOUISE,

qy	Is it good?	ny	Yeah,

bh	Is it?	ny	yeah,

qw	which Billy Crystal movie?	sd	this is the,

^2	CITY SLICKERS,	aa	right.

sv	That's a real good show.	qy	Have you seen that?

sv	but it says a lot about middle life you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, it's a really good show.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I'd heard it was really good, too

qy	Have you seen that?	nn	No.

sv	It's a really good show.	b	Okay.

sd	has Jeff Bridges and, Robin Williams.	b	Uh huh.

sv	really, really good.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean it kind of runs in, in batches,

b	Uh huh.	qw	what kind of movies in general do you like to watch?

sd	but, I really enjoy watching a movie where they don't really try and attract you know, the great audience, but rather put out a real good movie.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Did you ever see that?	nn	No,

sd	I think it's put out by Landmark Productions, the same people who put out CHARIOTS OF FIRE.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, it's about, Jesuit community at the Inca Falls in, South America, Northern Argentina.	b	uh huh

sd	really, really good show.	sd	in fact, I, I'll, I'll look for it because I ,

sv	The cinematography is just beautiful and really beautiful scenes and real good music.	b	Actually yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	And, I'm sure that, that would make it worth her watching.

b	Yeah.	sd	my, my movie watching has, severely, has changed a lot since I got married.

bh	yeah?	ny	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	and so I, I, I, I really, I used to watch a fair number of foreign films.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I find I don't do it anymore or else I have to watch them on my own.

sd	and, it gets very difficult to,	^2	Find something both of you will watch.

aa^r	yeah.	sv	it's funny because most women aren't really,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Keep her on the edge of her seat.

sv	Sometimes you're in the mood for it even.	sd	But, so it, it varies,

sv	But it's fun to,	aa	Well, yeah,

bf	that's, The ones where they dub in the English.	sv	they won't come within ten feet of, all the ya . All the sounds of the karate chops flying through the air .

qy	are you, fluent in another language	ny	yeah,

bh	you don't?	nn	No,

sd	but I do enjoy watching you know, subtitles.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	we are to discuss air pollution and, what we think the causes are.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I probably would, target, industry as being number one polluter.	aa	Yeah,

aa	yes.	b	Yeah,

sd	because, there's a lot of commercial vehicles out there, especially the big rigs like the busses and, the big, eighteen wheelers and so forth.	b	Huh .

sv	and they haven't released it yet.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think there's a lot of hold back, because, of, priorities that they have, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	You have some children.	sd	I have five in the kitchen at the moment.

qrr	or do you,	sd	I have three of my own

qy	is there anything,	sd	They cause more noise pollution than air pollution .

sv	Well, temporarily they do.	aa	That's right,

sv	Then we get out of that phase, soon enough.	b	Yeah.

sd	yes.	sd	I remember being,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I can remember the smell of Newark vividly .

b	sure.	sv	And it's the type of industry, you know, which obviously if you can smell it, it's in the air.

sd	and the fumes from the incineration was a terrible pollutant to the air.	b	Yeah.

sv	and it's not gone either, because it has untold ramifications.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, And it gets into people, you know, which is, the most important, resource that we have is people,	sd	Then it just gets into the soil and into the water .

sv	they, really are.	b	Yeah.

h	So they say .	sv	I think we've got to do more with the recycling.

sv	but there's not enough.	b	Yeah.

sv	And we need expert cooperation.	sv	at least they're starting, you know.

sv	Education of the, Education of the people is primary, I would think.	sv	So at least they're moving that direction.

sv	and we're hard to teach.	b	Uh huh.

sv^r	We are hard to teach.	sv	it's probably going to be a generation or two before, before it's really going, very well, because now the adults are more aware of it,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and the children are being taught in the schools it'll be, you know, on down the road this is going to be passed on, which is good.

sv	of course, we would like to see it accelerated because, of the critical nature of it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	just to, think that way, we have to be in that thought pattern and able to, motivate ourselves to, do what is right for the atmosphere.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, every human being that lives is a contributor, to pollution,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and as we educate them individually what they can do, people become more aware of the things in industry too that are causing problems

sv	Well, hopefully it can be resolved within a shorter time frame than we have seen it done in the past. That the time frame for cleaning up our air and our, land, you know, which, we get our nutrients from.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know, I mean, everything goes back to the land.	t3	I'll turn it up in a minute, honey, when I'm done .

sv	So it's just, very critical, I think at this point to, get that through to the people and get us educated.	b	Uh huh

sd	I don't know if they offer classes in the grade school, subjecting.	sd	I think they teach it a lot in science .

bk	okay.	b	Yeah.

qy	Would that be, perhaps, the first grade level, which would be,	sd	I, I think they're kind of getting it in all different grades.

sv	and they can really , relate to that.	b	Yeah.

br^m	Target stores?	aa	Yeah.

bk	okay.	sd	if you go in the entrance, they've got, stands usually where they have, kind of a little newspaper thing that the kids can read

b	Okay.	sd	and , and they can form a group to,

^2	help fight the pollution.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and others will pick up on their example and carry it, further.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, because, thoughts are,	sv	Well, I know it's a hard problem to solve because you know, like McDonald's has changed back and forth between paper and foam and that kind of thing,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they do all these studies on which ones pollute more,

sd	Well, I was just looking around my house and thinking about the painting that I've done.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was kind of an orangish brown.	b	Okay.

sd	It was not real pretty.	b	Yeah.

sd	Anyway, so the kitchen was one of the rooms that got hit with that color.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and if I look underneath my cabinets, I'm not satisfied with the jobs I did on it because there're splotches.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, I'm glad it's done, because it's brighter.	aa	Yeah,

ba	lord.	sd	I guess the big discussion, just kind of what you were mentioning, has been the color.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we put a flat over the top,

b	yeah.	sd	Every time the sun would come up in the morning I'd see another spot and have to drag out the paint can.

qw	So what are you going to get it off with if you get it on and it's dried?	sd	Well, it's not too bad.

b	Uh huh.	sd*	and it's really not to bad to get off, / * typo to > too

qy^d	And it's not scratching your floor, because it's so thick.	nn	No,

sd	We have two children.	b	Okay,

sd	it's just terrible what they do.	b	Yeah.

sd	So I've got dye on my bathroom door.	ba	gosh.

sd	I guess I'll have to take that door down and really get it good.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And then we have a two story.	b	Okay.

sd	We did the outside of it one summer.	b	Yeah.

sd	I could get up on the roof and do that.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, I dread that the next time.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, you're not nearly as concerned with a barn or a grainery, or something like that as you would be with your own house.

qy	Have you guys tackled your ceilings yet?	na	a little bit,

sd	We're dreading it.	b	Yeah

sd	It's like, they're dark.	b	Yeah.

sd	Everything else is white.	ba	gosh,

qy	Now have you thought about this? That wherever you buy your paint, you need to make sure that that store's not likely to go out of business.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, It's gone pretty well.

sd	but I still feel good, the minute I put that paint on, even if it does got a dent in it	b	Yeah.

sd	I do.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Do you do that?	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	Spots in it.	ny	Yeah,

qy	Are you having to repair the walls at all?	sd	they're in pretty good condition, as far as, major repairs. You know, a lot of little filling holes and nicks and things like that,

ba	that's smart.	b	yeah,

qw	So where do you live?	sd	live in Dallas.

sd	I'm in Garland.	bk	Okay,

qy^t	did you keep getting that it was down?	nn	No,

bh	You didn't?	sd	In fact, we were planting flowers this weekend .

sd	well, I've never tried any other kinds of painting besides on a surface like the house like to paint a picture or anything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can't think of anything else to say about painting.	b	Yeah,

sv	and it hurts your arm.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	o	but, no,

^g	right?	ny	yeah,

qy	Do you have one of those straightedge things to put underneath when you're doing the baseboards?	ny	Yeah,

qy	On your baseboards?	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	You don't have any carpet down in your house?	nn	No

sd	and, I haven't figured out how you're supposed to paint it, on down, so that you won't see where you stopped off and still not get it on the carpet.	b	kay.

sd	You can't hold it there until it's dried.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I think we're overtaxed to the hilt.	b	Yeah.

sd	but eventually they may try to push it through.	b	really.

sd	no state income tax.	sd	that's great, because they don't have it in Florida.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, you know, like I say, I'm in New York

sv	I think what needs to be done is they need to control their spending habits.	aa	Right,

b	Right.	o@	I think if it were to be, if it were to be, hold on a second please, someone just walked in the ro , * seems to me that the "hold on" should be a separate slash unit (marked 'ad'), and shouldn't continue into B.15 if it were to be spent in the right way I think I wouldn't be so upset about it, / * see B.13 note

aa	Yeah.	sv	but given that it's not spent properly, I think it's a major problem.

sv	Well we're really overburdened from federal, state and local, that it takes such a size out of your paycheck that there's not a whole lot you can always do with your paycheck.	b	Uh huh

b	Uh huh.	sv	so they want I think they're trying,

sv	Well they're kind of put into a trap of being out there to please the special interest groups as well.	b	Right.

sv	And, I think the only way that can be changed for us to get a better tax revenue that's fairness and all, is for us to limit their terms.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And by doing so, they're not obligated to anybody.	aa	I agree,

sv	but, what in general though that taxes are doing to us is, it's just taking, a bite out of our savings.	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, but I'm not convinced, a , tha , that Social Security is doing as well as it should you know, and, and, and, and, and that, you know, those people who need it for welfare and so forth, who really need it for welfare, not the eighty five to ninety percent of them who don't need it. But I mean the real people who really need it, you know, should be getting it

sv	And I believe the Social Security tax is a great scheme.	qy	You think so?

sv	right now, they're robbing from it to pad the federal deficit.	aa	I know

sv	If, most company, C E O s were to do that within their private company, they'd be in jail.	b	Yeah

qh	So how are we letting them get away with it.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	it'd be nice if we sort of, as one, band together

b	Yeah.	sd	To see if we could sort of clean them up

sv	A lot of people have become too complacent and believe everything is just the norm as to the way things are going and feel absolutely helpless to oppose a lot of the situations going on, in the taxing system.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I sort of get discouraged when I think about all the things that I think are wrong .

b	uh huh.	h	So, I don't kno ,

sv	It's just going to take, really, a combination effort, I think, of the majority of the American people to come to a decisive answer, or vote to limit the way it's spent.	b	Yeah.

sd	See, we're, we have no say so as to where the money goes in the first place.	aa	Right.

sv	and they are controlled, or pretty much do what they want to do.	aa	Right,

sv	or, it's occurred so many times that they figure people will usually forget and don't think about it when the election time arises.	b	Right .

sv	And generally it does work out that way.	sv	They do forget, it's true, because everybody,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So it becomes, a general battle of the sort of the election of the lesser of two evils, I think,

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and what I make isn't taxed very highly because I'm still in school.

sv	Well when you get out into the real world then you'll know.	sd	But my, my, my wife has a real job

b	Yeah.	sd	Especially around bonus time.

qy	you have a bonus?	b^m	Bonus,

b	Oh.	nn	no

b	Uh huh.	sd	We're lucky to get paychecks the way I figure.

^g	right.	sd	my wife is taxed on her bonus as well,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean her bonus isn't that much,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So she gets destroyed on her bonus check.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, she works in, in sales.

sv	but then you're paying really high taxes when you're doing a lucrative job.	aa	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	h	So, I don't know,

sd^t	Well, I have, about said all I can think of to say.	aa	Same here,

sv^t	it's a rather touchy topic at that,	aa	I, I do agree with you, most wholeheartedly.

ba	Well that's great.	fc	It's been a pleasure talking with you.

fc	You too,	ft	Thanks for call.

fc	have a good day.	fc	You too.

qy	do you work outside the home?	nn	No,

ba	wow .	qy	Do you?

qy	Have you?	br^m	Have I?

ny	uh huh.	nn	no,

ny	well, yes I do.	bk	Okay.

qy^d	I'm assuming that you are married and have a husband that supports you.	na	Right.

ad	And so we could talk about, that path, you know, how important you think his benefits are. and, and, how important you think they are and what would you like to see increased in his benefits.	aa	Okay.

sd	How important you think that would be.	aa	Right.

bf	Because of course, if you did not have them, you would be pulling from your salary, of course.	aa	Exactly,

aa	Right,	aa^r	exactly.

aa^r	right.	sv	Especially when you have a family, with children, and you are always going to the doctor for,

bf	And they always have surprises for you.	aa	Exactly,

b^m	With children,	sv	they always do.

sd	we could not do without the benefit package from any company that we worked whether they be a conglomerate or just a small, business.	aa	Yeah,

^2	You would still have something.	aa	Exactly.

aa	Right.	sv	Also, for working women I think a lot of the companies should start providing for day care in the, in the building.

sd	and that's one of the areas that she is working on. To have, a day care center for the children of the nurses that are staffing the facility.	b	Right.

sv	And that is true in many, many areas of, you know, job titles and professions.	b	Yeah.

bf	it would, It would be just futile.	sd	And it would be just,

bf	And they would not have the quality,	sd	basically be me working to pay for them to be at a day care, center.

bf	And they, would be deprived of their mother.	aa	Exactly.

ba	I understand that totally .	sd	Besides which, it would be easier, there's a lot of single mothers out there now, from divorces and a lot of, women are starting to have babies without a partner.

aa	that's true.	sv	And to go to work, you are worried about your child, besides which you have to get up earlier to take the child to day care.

aa	Right.	sv	And if they were in the same building then you are going to the same place,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you could go for your lunch hour down and visit with your child, you know, and take your breaks with your children, or something.

qy	Do you think that would be, acceptable?	sv	I think tha ,

aa	I do too.	sv	I think if the company could not provide it all on their own, for the people that would be using it, you know, a certain amount of their salary would go to it.

aa	That's right.	sv	But it would still probably be cheaper , with the company helping, if everybody, you know, pulled their own weight in it.

aa	I, agree with that.	sv	I think it would be really. really great.

sv	That would be fair.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	aa	I do.

qo	and how do you feel about, let's see, eye care?	sv	Eye care is good.

sd	Vision, I guess it's called, vision care.	b	Yeah.

arp	It depends on who examines your eyes.	aa	Yeah,

sv	If you have an optometrist or an ophthalmologist, there's a vast difference in those two, professionals.	aa	Right,

^2	Glaucoma.	ar	Well, she does not have it,

bk	okay,	sd	Her eyes are changing,

b	Yes.	sd	and she has to be tested periodically.

aa	they are.	sd	Now, I think your insurance covers her on that,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but you know, for something like that, that's just as bad as a medical, you know,

bf	that's critical, because she's in need of it so often.	aa	Right.

sv^r	and, you know, people have needs in their life that unique to us, to them.	aa	Right.

sv	I mean, we are all different	sd	Now, I would like to see better dental insurance to me.

sd^e	that's my other phone.	b	Oh.

sd	and she's on vacation,	bk	Okay.

sd	so, it's okay.	sd	But, with the three children orthopedic care, not orthopedic, orthodontic care,

sv	That's very expensive.	sd	because on a lot of the dental insurance, they do not cover that well.

sv	Orthodontic work is terribly expensive.	aa	Yes,

sv	Especially when you have a lot of problems with the children teeth, and you have to really get them when they are young, in order to have, not, a decent smile when they are fifteen, sixteen years old.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they started having extractions at age eight, because they just had too many teeth for their size mouth.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we footed the bill, because there was not any such thing when they were young.	aa	Right.

b	uh huh.	sd	And it affects his speech a little bit, not anything, you know,

^2	major.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But just enough that his bite is off a little bit

sd	Well, I tell you I just read an article in the paper about what they are doing, I think it was an ad in our publication at Texas Instruments, where they are breaking the jaw and, and lining the jaw up with the teeth.	b	Oh.

sd	it's less painful and less expensive.	bh	Really.

ny	Yeah.	sv	That sounds like it would hurt more.

sd	but it's, it's, easier on the patient in the long run, which amazed me.	ba	gosh.

qo	So, Beverly, what do you think about drug testing?	sv	I think in some professions it's, essential. Things like pilots and things that involve the safety of other people particularly.

sd	we got a lot of mistakes here, in the Maryland, Baltimore area because of, train conductors on drugs.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess he smoked marijuana for lunch and, drove his truck up the back of two small cars in a tunnel that goes underneath a river that leads into the Chesapeake Bay	ba	my goodness,

qh	but then you know, who would test all truck drivers you know,	sv	that is a problem

sv	I think, looking at athletes being drug tested	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think the random drug testing, I don't know in my own mind if it has reduced the athletes from taking drugs, because they're still being caught	b	Right.

qy	that make sense?	ny	Yes,

sv	I, I think, in the long run I think it would be good.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think in the short run they think because so many of those tested have gotten away with it you know, the test hasn't come down hard on anyone	b	Right.

h	I don't know.	sd	however, here in Dallas we had a player, Roy Tarpley on the Mavericks team

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he had been suspended a couple of times because of drug testing,

b	Right.	sd	and, just recently he was, missing from practice

b	Yeah,	sd	so they were able to get rid of him and not have to pay his contract.

b	yeah.	sd	And so, in his case, he lost his whole career,

b	Yeah.	sd	and talk about a terrible role model,

sd	I guess, my dad was hit by a drunk driver who was also high when I was probably eighteen, my senior year in high school	ba	my goodness.

sd	and I could see the beer cans from the guy that hit him	b	Uh huh.

sd	and from from that point on, I became so anti drunk driving now I think people should be allowed to drink, I think that's an adult responsibility, whatever,	ba	that's terrible.

sv	and drugs have, long lasting effects	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I guess when I younger I was, probably a little more liberal on the subject.	sv	I think most of us are.

sd	I guess when I was eighteen years old, if you'd have asked me, I'd have thought it was fine	b	Uh huh.

sd	but by the time I was nineteen my opinion had totally changed.	aa	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	the drunk and his wife in the car were killed,

b	Right.	sd	he went through surgery after surgery

sd	Traction and all that terrible stuff.	sd	and for a long time they didn't even know whether he'd be normal again.

b	Right.	sd	He, has been tutored,

sv	I don't think somebody,	sd	He may never have all those motor skills back.

sv	you don't, you don't have the right to interfere in somebody else's life.	aa	No.

sv^r	You don't have the right to interfere in somebody's life.	sd	Another thing that we saw here recently. some of our high school kids were out goofing around in a park area that a train track ran through

b	Uh huh.	sd	and one boy who had been drinking decided for some stupid reason to try to play with the train.

b	Yeah.	sd	he was in a coma for four months,

b	Uh huh.	sd	he's out of the coma now,

b	Right.	sd	but he's lost,

sd^t	This is a subject that I'm not real well versed on,	ad	Well, let's talk about air pollution.

aa	Okay.	qw	What do you think causes air pollution in Dallas?

o	No.	qy^d	Maybe you're not in Dallas.

sd	I'm in Richardson.	bk	Okay.

qo	What do you think as far as air pollution in the Dallas area?	sd	Well, I have some small experience in this area.

b	Right.	sd	But, one of the major problems that Dallas has is oxides and nitrogen.

b	Right.	sd	power plants since,

bh	really?	sd	And that's, course hydrogen sulfide, which is when you burn gasoline, you also produce some water vapor and that goes back in with your sulphur

b	Sure.	sd	and under the right condition you get H two S.

sv	Well, you are well versed on the subject, I tell you.	bd	Well, I don't know.

sd	I guess I notice it the most just, in driving around Dallas with all the highway equipment that's working on the on, six thirty five and seventy five, just the cars in general.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That's where I see most of it.	sd	Ron a lot of this is caused by the fact that cars sitting in traffic tend to run rich because the way the pollution is.

b	Right.	sd	And when they run rich they spit out a lot of hydrocarbons,

sv	and I think they'll be working on them long after my wife and I are gone.	sd	Well, I guess, not trying to top you, but I grew up in Dallas county and I can remember when they built the north part of North Central which was built after the south part of Central

b	Right .	sd	and, I can remember coming over the hill down there long about, I don't know, little bit north of Mockingbird on up over those hills

sd	and, I guess when you're out on the interstate, heading north or south and you're just cruising right along and there's no build up of cars	b	Yeah,

ny	Yes.	sd	Right along in there somewhere, suddenly the air feels cleaner.

co	and I'm going to make it a point to.	sd	Well, sometimes it depends on which way the winds blowing

b	Sure.	sd	but, I also travel a little bit

sd,o@	We eat out quite a bit, it's just my husband and I at home now. / * 2 slash units?	qy	once a week, twice a week?

sd	When we working out we ate out more than that .	b	Yeah,

o@	* slash error Uh huh. / * slash error	sd	but we both work

qw	Well, what type of restaurant do you like, Richard?	sd	really, I'm kind of open on food.

b	Right.	sd	Been on a real barbecue kick lately.

bh	have you?	ny	Yeah.

sd	We eat, a lot of Chinese food.	b	Excuse me. yeah,

qw	What do you look for in a restaurant?	sd	I hate franchised restaurants.

br	You what?	sd^r	I despise franchised restaurants.

sd	I don't like fast food hamburgers and all of that.	sd	I don't,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, if I could have a good small restaurant or a good large restaurant I'd go to the good small restaurant.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I don't know why that is.

sd	I don't care to go to a place just for the price of it .	aa	Well, yeah,

sd	I mean, it's like continental French restaurant or something really with high prices	b	Yeah.

sd	and seven courses isn't what I usually look for .	br^m	It is what you look for?

ng^r,o@	It isn't, no that isn't what I look for. / * More than 1 slash unit?	b^m	isn't.

aa	Right .	sd	And not just that, well, that's a big part of it. I try to get my money's worth. You know, and not just in quantity, you know, but quality, and flavor and texture and care.

bf	Presentation	arp	Well, presentation's not always all of it either.

sd	Well, like we've been eating some in a restaurant that just changed hands recently,	sv	it's important.

sd	and I had a pretty good meal of grilled pork chops and a baked apple and potatoes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I said if they would just add a little bit of cranberry sauce, something like that .	aa	Yeah,

sd	that's what I mean by,	sd	and just for color if nothing else.

sv	It would mean a lot to the looks of the plate.	aa	Yeah,

bf	Tex Mex, Tex Mex.	aa	Yeah,

sd	we like the real Mexican food better than Tex Mex.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	It's all pretty good, isn't it?	ny	yes,

sd	and we're in the mountains in Virginia.	b	Oh.

sd	And most of the seafood's frozen.	aa	yeah

aa	Right.	sd	and in Texas we got it from the Gulf.

sd	Lots of shrimp.	aa	And, yeah,

ba	I know it .	sd	I was like a man starving at every meal.

sd	and when he goes to Maine, he eats lobster, I guess, at least twice a day, all the time he's up there .	qy^g	It's a lot cheaper there, isn't it?

sd^e	It's like two ninety eight a pound for a pound lobster.	sd	It's like shrimp on the Gulf.

b	Yeah.	sd	That's as cheap as steaks some places I mean in a grocery store.

sd	A lot of the restaurants you can get two one pound lobsters for like ten ninety nine.	ba	my gosh.

sv	it's a good place to go.	sv	it sounds wonderful.

sd	Lots of little restaurants, too, with home cooked food, that's up there.	sv	That sound good.

b	uh huh.	sd	And, it's just so much different than to eat something that's been frozen. You know

sd	We went to Gal ,	sd	shrimp straight out of the bay.

sd	We were in Galveston last year well, the first of this year, actually.	b	Hm.

sd	and they claimed to have the best shrimp on the Gulf coast.	qy	Was it true?

sd	and they were set up with two buffets, one for their regular Sunday chicken and roast beef and vegetables and everything. And then one complete seafood buffet.	b	Hm.

sd	They had shrimp fixed probably six different ways.	b	yes,

sd	It was wonderful.	sv	they can do things to shrimp that no one else can.

b	Uh huh.	qy	So, have you eaten crawfish yet?

sd	Not there, but at my brothers I tried it.	sv	as with anything, it's preparation.

sd	he went down and bought some at a local place that steams them, just so we'd try them.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Probably needed some cold beer with it	qy^d	So you do eat out a lot.

na	Quite a bit.	sd	One of our other real problems with going out to eat, Sunday morning brunches.

b	Oh.	sd	You know, Sunday brunch, all you can eat brunches.

sd	but we don't anymore.	sd	we still find it fun.

sd	Hate to come away feeling uncomfortable .	sd	Well, I work in machine shop and do a lot of physical labor.

qy	Like at hotels, or restaurants there?	ny	Yeah,

sd	We eat at Shoney's.	b	Yeah,

ba	that sounds nice.	sv	it, it's the way to spend a nice Sunday morning.

ba	I imagine it is.	sd	I think it's as much the trip to the mountains as it is the breakfast brunch. {D

qw	out of, which direction?	sd	Colorado Springs.

qw^r	Out of, which direction from there?	sd	West

b	Uh huh.	sd	west out of Colorado Springs.

qw	Ellen what kind of a car do you think you're going to buy? .	sd	Well, as a matter of fact, I was thinking about that the other day,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, something that still has a lots of amenities and, you know, gadgets and things.

qy^d	you do want a lot of that stuff?	ny	Yeah,

sd	you said amenities, that they have,	b^m	Amenities.

qw	but what about, their reputation of the company or the price.	b	Yeah,

sv	other people, don't seem to have the same problem .	b	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	but, I have preferences for some, makers over others,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, you know, I'm not so totally hung up on that, that I wouldn't buy something else,

sd	it doesn't seem like the quality is quite as high as I expected it to be.	bh	really?

sd	but still they cost us money, that we didn't feel like we should have had to pay, on a car that was that new, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, well, well under two years we had to replace the clutch.	b	Oh.

sd(^q)	and I said, since when?	b	Yeah.

sd	Brake pads are disposable , you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	but I never thought a clutch was disposable.	aa	Yeah,

sd	so that was kind of a shock .	b	Oh.

sd	they don't have the history of breaking down or things like that, that would go wrong would definitely not be considered disposable.	b	Right.

sv	You would never think of having to replace the clutch in a Mercedes, especially not after two years.	aa	No

h	I don't know.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, even though they do a lot of the work themself just buying the parts and everything is pretty expensive.

qw	or like what things are you looking at?	sd	Well, I haven't really gotten that far with it,

b	Uh huh.	h	but, I guess, I really don't know.

sd	I guess the commercials are getting to me, the Toyota commercials,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I know that a lot of people I've known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them, hardly had any problems at all.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think they have a really good, quality.	aa	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you knew it had been through a whole lot,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and yet, you know, it held up pretty doggone good,

sv	They seem to be really durable.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I don't know, if the next time I'm going to try to stay with buying something American or if I'm going to go for a little more, what I would consider to be a long term investment .	b	Yeah.

sd	it's easy to get gas mileage in this car,	b	Yeah

sd	it gets excellent gas mileage.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	ad^t	Well, we talked long enough .

aa	I think so.	b	Okay,

ft	thanks .	fc	Bye bye.

sd	Actually, I'm real close to being in the market to buy a car.	b	Oh.

sd	they're both over ten years old	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I kind of would like to get a more, gas efficient car and a newer model, something looks a little nicer.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so I need to make sure I've got one that I can fit, all five of us into.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And if you know anything about teenagers it's kind of hard to get them to sit together for any amount of time.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Well, I've kind of been leaning towards a Caravan.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, couple times I've had a opportunity to rent one	b	Uh huh.

sd	and because if you get the seven passenger version you can put some space between the kids.	b	Yeah,

sd	Plus it's got, good storage capacity in it for, you know, taking things along, going to the store,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you can move around.

aa	Exactly correct.	qy	is that the Dodge Caravan, that does that

sd	usually there's a double seat behind the, front buckets.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now what you can do is you could take that middle seat out and just have the three seats in the back, and the two seats up front,	b	Uh huh.

sd	You can move, the seats all around.	b	Yeah.

sd	About the only thing you can't do is take that three person across seat, and move it forward.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you can, move them around and stuff

b	Uh huh.	sd	and right now we have a van which is,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, next year we'll probably buy a new car

sv	I think that's getting to be kind of important now that, the price is becoming the driving factor,	b	Yeah.

sv	and then you looked to see how well you could afford it .	b	Uh huh.

sv	Or how you could afford it.	sv	Well, I think it's going to be a lot easier now.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think banks are going to be a little bit more lenient.

sv	I know they're trying to do everything they can to, end the recession.	b	Yeah.

sd	so I got a, nine and a half percent interest rate.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, that is also effecting buying a new car .	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, that and that,	sv	Balance that and the house payment,

na	two fourteen year olds will be, fifteen on the fourth of July	qy	are they twins?

sd^e	they're twins born on the bicentennial.	ba	wow.

sd	So, I've still got another full year and three months before they're going to be behind the wheel, of a car.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, they're, they're small enough that a first time driver could handle it, yet big enough that I feel safe that, if they were in an accident they would survive.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't get that kind of feeling with the kind of car like you talked about, the Honda.	sd	Well, the Honda's have been very safe. in accidents, more so that a lot of the American cars.

bh	Is that right?	sd	Matter of fact I just heard something today on the news about those, automatic seat belts that are attached to the door

b	Right.	sd	they're questioning the safety of those now saying that,

ba	Jeez.	sd	So they're saying they're not as safe as,

b	Yes.	sd	And you're, you're required to wear them.

sd	and then there's one, a lap belt.	aa	Exactly.

ad	Make sure you smack him around then .	sv	So, I mean, it kind of gives you a false sense of security.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, that, that's a concern of mine as far as, what I'll be looking at with buying a new car.

sd	a good source of information I've found has always been these, used car manuals because you can flip through the used car manuals	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you can look at the track record on, a car over the year,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, you usually notice, a lot of problems at the beginning and then things kind of iron out, to where, there's fewer problems.	b	Yeah.

sd	Now as long as they aren't changing the model, you know, like when the, Pontiac Grand Prix went from being a huge car to a small car they had a lot of problems, with the smaller car.	b	Yeah.

sd	As long as they aren't,	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and in, I think around nineteen eighty, they changed the model

aa	sure.	sd	Literally, I mean it got chopped in half

sv	So unless they're really changing the model, yeah, chances are that it's probably going to have the fewer mistakes than it had the year before.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And my husband had a Honda,

aa	I agree.	sd	So, so we ended up,

qy^d	he did really decide to go?	qy^d@	to Williams College in Massachusetts? And that he was trying to decide between University of Pennsylvania and Williams,

sd	I'm familiar with it,	sd	and it was a very difficult choice

qy^d	he must have a definite profession in mind.	o@	but that's one of the reasons why he chose Williams that it has solid liberal arts, * end of slash unit? About two thousand, / * should be indep slash unit. See B.8

qy	Is he excited?	sd	Very excited,

h	but there you go.	sd	Well, they're, they're really very strong academic rather than, you know, big sports,

qw	where you at?	sd	We're outside of, Washington in Maryland.

sd	I'm in, suburban Dallas.	b	Uh huh,

sd	We don't have any kids yet.	b	Okay,

sv	About all I can say is I guess about picking schools, I guess, if you don't know what you're going to do, liberal arts program is a good idea.	sd	one of the advices we've given our children is that you can always learn a job

aa	This is true,	sd	but what you can't learn, on a job, is a good solid well rounded education.

bf	the humanities, the history, yeah,	aa	That's right, you know,

aa^r	right,	sv	and if you get that you can,

sv	but you know, if they learn the job and they can go into graduate school usually a company, if it's worth it's weight, will subsidize,	aa	That's exactly right.

^g	right,	^q	do you want to go away,

b	Right.	^q	What do you want in a college.

ba	Good.	sd	so he wanted to swim in school,

bf	So he wouldn't have gone to something like where we're at, in Austin, Texas, University of Texas,	aa	That's right,

sd	well I think the other thing is, too, I know I went to a, city high school in Chicago	b	Uh huh.

sd	and economics was the choice	b	Uh huh.

sv	sounds like your son has academically the standing to get into that type of school.	sd	He is very, very strong academically,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and yet he did wind up having to make a choice.

sd	University of Pennsylvania,	sd	It's got about nine thousand undergraduate.

sv	that's strong,	b	Yeah,

sv	and it's, well, it's a little bit, I don't want to use the word wilder, that's not the word I want. more diverse ,	aa	Yes,

qy	At Williams,	sd	At Pennsylvania.

qw	Well how large is Williams?	sd	Williams is an undergraduate school only

b	Right.	sd	and it's a total of two thousand.

ba	Well that's not bad.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and he had visited his brother at Amherst and knew that he liked the environment

b	Uh huh.	sd	but he did go on college visits,

sd	and, that has something like either the first or second largest student population, like fifty thousand.	aa	Yes,

sd	Combined .	sv	it's large,

sd	and this was twenty years ago .	b	Uh huh.

sd	Showing my age,	qy	And did you ever eat at the Blue Bin Diner?

ad	well, let's not talk about that .	aa	No

sd	I mean I just can't say enough about it.	sd	it

sd	Well you know, my husband's an engineer and , a strong liberal arts background with, a graduate degree in a technical field will get him much further than say like a strong, business administration degree than with another M B A on top of it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but they usually don't.	sv	but, if you're going into,

sv	I mean, I think, I think all, I think the majority of people just don't know.	aa	That's right.

sd	he looked at criteria such as location, size of school 	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean a lot of kids just don't even want to go,	b	Yeah,

ba	that's not too bad.	aa	Yeah

sv	he will enjoy Williams I think and is a good academic,	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	he had a great time

sv	and, So he's developing his, internal instincts right now.	sd	and he said it almost back ,

sd	it was too different the level of income of lot of the students	b	Uh huh.

sd	and their attitudes was just, beyond my, in terms of drugs, et cetera, which I thought was shocking.	b	Yeah,

sd	but then I went,	sd	But I did,

b	Yeah.	sd	He had to look at himself.

sd	And you're going to get a little bit more input than discipline	aa	yeah,

sv	but I just think the other thing is with the way a lot of the youth is today, I think the refinement that they get I don't mean specifically or culture but just what you're saying, just a solid background because I just don't think at that age I just don't think that young people know what they want to do. You know	b	Uh huh.

aa	That's right.	sd	I told him to look to yourself.

b	Yeah.	^q	but if it's a class of fifteen and you need help, you know that it's much easier to do it and especially in the large schools they have lectures

b	Oh.	sd	and even though they may break it up into smaller groups Penn is known for having graduate assistance teaching.

b^m	Video lectures.	sd	They have graduate assistants to teach the smaller groups.

qy	did he just make the decision today?	sd	he made the decision, I'd say, about, an hour and a half ago .

ba	How funny .	aa	Yeah,

ba	That's funny.	sd	I mean, and they were really nice,

bf	He knew what he didn't want	aa	Yeah,

qy	Did your other son,	sd	My other son is just as happy as a bed bug.

bc	A clam.	sd	the moment he knew, he decided early on that Amherst was the school.

ba	wonderful.	sd	and he also got into the graduate school of music as an undergraduate for classical guitar,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but he decided he was going to go to the, the smaller now, and then graduate school later.

bf@	* I think this should be a slash unit, since A's next utterance follows B's longer turn And now he's a senior / * should be an indep slash unit	sd	Well, my older boy's real happy,

qrr	or is this early admissions?	sd	he's going to be a junior.

sv	well sounds like you have two talented sons.	sd	Well, you know, see the advice we give is to not limit yourself, especially this, you know, go to a school where you're not forced to make too many irrevocable decisions your first year or two.

sv	but I think a lot of people think about the tuition level and what exactly are you getting in return	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think it's rather sad,	sd	Well, one of the things we said is that they should pick the college,

sv	You are wonderful parents .	sd	Well, we place a real high priority on education in our family.

sd	I'm thirty something and taking my L S A T s on June tenth.	ba	good,

sv	The point being, and your sons will learn this from you, I'm sure, that, no matter what age you are, you can learn	aa	That's right,

sd	I'm actually at work.	b	o , .

sd	I'm in facilities and happen to have, weekend duty here.	bk	okay.

sd	I'm in the South Building.	bk	okay.

sd	there's three of us, facilities' managers are covering the off shifts. Just to have somebody here, from management to, see if they need anything.	bk	okay.

qw^t	how many calls have you made?	sd^t	I've only made a few.

ad	Go ahead, you first .	aa	Okay,

ba	good.	sd	When the phone rings and you've got a recording, and this always happens like around five or six o'clock, at night. It rings and you get this recording

b	Okay, yeah.	sd	and then it won't go away

sd	and then when they actually start off with a computer, and expect you to talk to a computer, that's where I draw the lin , I just hang up immediately, you know.	b	Uh huh.

^h	shut my other radio off here .	b	Yeah,

sd	and I have one too,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they say that they can tie up your answering machine and just have a big long, if they catch your answering machine,	bf	They can leave their whole spiel on it.

sd	But they can certainly, block your answering machine so someone else calls you, and your answering machine is full, you know, it won't erase.	b	Huh.

sv	That was a good one.	aa	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so it really doesn't make much difference as to whether or not, you know, you have a unlisted number or not.

b	Uh huh.	sd	or they sell their catalog list of people, to different companies and everything.

sv	it seems to me that you you kind of yell into it.	aa	Right.

sd	He actually, ruins my privacy you might say because the, the T I offices are so open anyway. that I'm amazed that, the fact that I'm about ready to say something, if he's even thought of that that's a real uncourteous thing, an invasion of everyone else's time and concentration to just be loud.	b	Uh huh,

sd	that's, perhaps not quite an invasion of privacy	b	Uh huh.

sd	we both picked phone items there.	aa	yeah.

ad,qy@	Go ahead, do you have any more? / * Seems to be 2 slash units	^h	Let's see, I'm trying to think.

ad	but go ahead.	sd	Well, I work in the computer science center

b	Yeah.	sd	And, this was a software program that a company was developing that was going to have X amount of million peoples financial history and information on it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, they finally, stopped production of it because of all the hullabaloo it caused, because it was such a big deal.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I wouldn't have been too thrilled about it either.

sd	I'm a, talk show person.	b	Okay.

sd	I'm a radio person I guess is what I mean.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so I listened to, was it five seventy, which has continuous talk on the weekends, and Neil Sperry and everybody, I mean, the lawyers and veterinarians and all that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	even your Social Security number, you know, you should just put down the basics and put N A, where you don't want to answer.	b	Huh.

sd	and I was curious as to you know, what specific things you did have to put down.	b	Huh.

sd(^q)	But if you don't feel like putting it down, just put N A, you know.	b	Uh huh.

b^r	yeah.	sd	and there it is.

b	Yeah.	sd	They just want that credit history to see if you're a person.

sd	and no one was, I guess, really too concerned about it, yet in Austin, there were, whether it was a class action or how far it got, I don't really know because T I only had a few things on T I NEWS I think about it, that they were objecting to	b	Uh huh.

sd	some people object to that which I don't mind, no problem at all, you know.	sd	I know that there's several people I've talked to that really have a problem with it

b	Huh.	sd	so you get kind of used to, to going through stuff like that.

b	right.	sd	You know, you don't pay any attention to it. I mean,

b	Right.	sd	once you sign over your soul to Uncle Sam, , you know, you just kind of, kind of blow it off

sd	I served my time too, yeah.	sd	So, I think the people who have been down that route or have had to deal with anything like that have learned, you know, it's just one of those things.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I do know that there are several sites .

qy	did they object too?	ny	Yeah,

sd	it doesn't bother me that whether they do it in high schools or, you know, carry it to wherever you want to carry it really, of course, that would really be a big thing in a public school	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I think it is, they found that it's been very low really.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't really know if, they need to publish that really.	sv	I don't think it's a necessary thing to publish it they just need to deal with it and, , on an individual basis.

aa	Right.	sv	I mean, if they're going to do it, just deal with it and, be done with it.

sv	but it's something that is for the good of so many people, you know, to, have everyone, take the test right away	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and hopefully, maybe some people will convince other people that are on drugs that, well, I might as well get off, you know, if I want to stay so, you know, if that was an invasion of privacy maybe it was good.	sv	I, I think it's a safety factor too because, you know, when people are inebriated, whether it's alcohol or drugs or whatever, they are very unsafe for their co workers, you know, it's like, you know, my father was a fireman

aa	sure.	sd	and I can just imagine if, you know, , you know, some guy being on drugs they go there

b	Right.	sd	and they fall out because of the drug issue, you know. I mean you can forgive somebody because all of a sudden they maybe get hurt or whatever that you can understand / * Seems that there should be a slash after 'you know'

b	Uh huh.	sv	but the use of drugs or anything like that, will, be a problem.

sd	and we have a really high turn over rate.	bh	really?

sd	you really don't.	ba	That's good.

b	Yeah.	sd	I never really thought about that,

sd	you have the pick of you know, the crop here.	qy	Are they big into ambiance down there

b	Oh!	sd	Texas to me makes

bf	You know, your fourteen ounce steak with your potato and stuff.	aa	Yeah,

sd	You can get as dressed up or, you know just going to the local barbecue and just doing take out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's good stuff, you kno ,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, you know, you get a great variety of things here,	b	Yeah.

qw	But if you were going to a restaurant, say, where would you go?	sd	well we have a lot of favorites here, in Northern Virginia

b	Right.	sd	and there's all sorts of things down there.

bk	okay.	sd	and he's got a big clientele

b	Oh.	sd	we don't hang around with them, because usually it's, you know, ninety dollars a plate or something silly like that.

aa	right .	sd	So, but, my wife has a friend that runs one of the restaurants down there

b	I see.	sd	And, most French food always leaves me hungry for some reason.

aa	That's true too.	sd	but the atmosphere is just wonderful.

aa	yeah.	sd	Well as out here you might have enjoyed the meal and go away feeling satisfied, it's not so much an event, you know, out in the suburbs when you go to a local restaurant.

b	Yeah,	sd	And they're starting to get a little bit different,

sd	You know, you go out	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you eat your crawfish and jambalaya and stuff.	b	Yeah

sd	so, he and a friend of his get together	b	Uh huh.

sd	So when we do go out we really, you know, want to be wowed by, the presentation, so to speak.	b	Right.

sd	and like I said, some of our very favorites are the Chinese restaurants,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we do a lot of take out because everybody's so busy running around,	b	Yeah.

sd,o@	and so we sort of enjoy you know, both parts because, * slash unit, because A's next utterance is a backchannel of B.58 Uh huh. / * Should be indep. slash unit	sd	We have two very special places in Northern Virginia that people go to.

b	Right.	sd	Maryland is, you know, a big place for crabs with the bay pretty much taking over most of Maryland.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, Captain Pell's is a place with the big huge wooden tables inside,

bf@	Just to be abused, by the meanest waitress . * slash unit that's a talent. / * Indep. slash unit	sd	And people come all over the country amazed at, the abuse they were seized.

^2^g	Got to carry through with the abuse, huh.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and they are all singing arias to you and, and just walking around the restaurant singing	ba	wow.

qy	So, do you fish?	ny	yeah.

qr	from a boat or from shore?	sd	From the dock, from shore.

qy	mostly catfish	sd	mostly we catch carp.

qy	A real light line, real light rig?	ny	Yeah.

sv	Well, that sounds like fun.	sd	They fight hard.

sv	Fish in Colorado different than that.	bh	Yeah?

sd	Mostly trout in the mountains.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	mountain streams and rivers.	qy	Are they good to eat?

sd^e	Yeah, very much there, you know.	qy	you mean size wise they're not very big?

sd^e	but they're big fun.	b	Yeah.

br	What?	qy^r	Are you fly fishing

sd	I, I'm a fly fisherman.	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's fun.	sd	I've never even tried that.

qy^d	You're not casting a weight on the end of the line?	ny	Uh huh.

qy^d^r	You're casting the weight of the line.	sd	With the little thing on the end.

sd	well, the fly on the end weighs nothing.	b	Yeah,

sd	It weighs less than the line.	b	Oh.

sd	So what you do is, you strip off, four, five, six little rolls, coils, of line into your hand.	b	Uh huh.

sd	As you whip it, over your head, or side to side, you slowly feed out more and more.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	You fish upstream.	qy^d^m	you fish upstream?

sd	And then you let it carry it downstream.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you do it again.	bf	You hope that they think it's a bug and, and eat it.

aa	exactly.	b	Yeah.

sd	from what I'm seeing and hearing and all, the big pattern that's really looking forward for spring is the grub pattern.	br	That's a fish?

sd^e	it looks like a grub.	bf	it's a lure.

sd	a lure, a fly.	bk	I see.

sd	Whenever you have something that looks like something else	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's a fly, you call it a pattern.	b	Oh.

sd	All right, you know, there's bumble bee patterns excuse me. there's bumble patterns, there's mosquito patterns, there's wasp patterns, there's grub patterns.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, They seemed to have been hitting real heavy on it in Fall.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know how that changes, the phase of the moon	na	I guess so.

sd	I, You see, I'm from west Texas.	sd	but bait tends to work the best, just some blood bait.

ny	Yeah.	qw	Where are you from?

sd	Lubbock.	sd	I'm from Midland.

bf	another west Texan.	sd	I went to college at Tech,

ny^r	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	It, It, it's kind of nice way to get away from everything for the day.	sd	I didn't catch anything,

sd	Well, there you fish mornings and evenings. And nights.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	Just from the heat of it all.

sd	It, at times, gets incredibly hot here.	bh	It does?

qy	June?	sd	We were in Mesa Verde Park,

b	Oh.	sd	And it was twenty eight, twenty nine degrees.

b	Yeah.	sd	We did not know what to do about it.

sv	it's a total experience, you know, getting out in nature and, hearing the crickets, and listening to the birds and, seeing the squirrels and, camping out, and eating out, of doors	b	Yeah.

sd	I just freeze.	b	Oh.

sd	well, you know, ankle deep or standing on the bank, and slipping it out there.	sd	That's cold water around there.

sd	You know, I always intend to just stand on the bank and just kind of slip it, out there,	bk	I see.

sd	The water's kind of,	aa	Yeah.

sd	and, the next thing you know, your knees are wet.	b	Yeah.

na	got a stepdaughter.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, at times she enjoys it, at times not.	b	Yeah.

sd	A fuzzy little dog.	sd	I have a three and a half year old and a one and a half year old.

b	Oh.	sd	And the little one, of course, could care less.

b	Yeah.	sd	The, three and a half year old has just gotten to the point,

b	Yeah.	sd	And he started trying to cast it.

sv	you guys sure want to be out of range.	sd	He understands the mechanics of pushing the button and throw, but not necessarily the direction it's going to go in.

sv	It takes time.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we still had a good time out, of the deal.	b	Yeah.

sv	and Colorado is a beautiful place to live.	aa	yeah.

sd	you've got to work for a living.	aa	Well, yeah,

qw	What division you all in?	br	I'm sorry, what?

qw^r	What division are you all in?	sd	We're both,

sd	Well, the only thing up here, is division one.	sd	And he's in school, and everything else.

bh	yeah?	sd	Kathy and Kevin Guy.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	fishing's, fishing is fun up here.	sd	So that would be neat to, try it some time.

sd	But it is fun.	b	Yeah,

sv	You know, the experience is better up here, I think.	sv	long as you have a good time, that's the main point

sv	You know, it seems more relaxing, there's more to look at.	aa^m	Definitely more to look at.

sv	and there's something about listening to water run that's relaxing to the soul . You know, if you're just sitting on a nice hot lake,	b	Yeah.

sv	it is interesting to watch that water rise all of a sudden.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I guess the creek, the mountains were really starting to melt,

sd	it gets foamy almost.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you know it's just pure and pristine. And the froth	b	Yeah.

ad^t	we can start.	aa	Okay.

fp	Hi.	qw	How many children do you have?

sd	I have four.	b^m	four,

qw	How many do you have?	sd	Well, I have two children and, two stepdaughters.

bk	Okay.	sd	So we have four altogether, too.

bk	Okay.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	because mine are all grown .	b	they are.

sd	I can only relate now to my grandchildren.	ba	well good.

sd	I do keep my,	ad	Impart me some wisdom, Catherine .

sd	but she gets paid for forty.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he has to work almost every Saturday	b	Uh huh.

sd	She's three.	bf	so she's a little one.

aa	Yes.	b	Yeah.

sd^m	she's little .	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)	She's says how are you doing grandma today.	b	Oh .

fe	Whoa .	qy	Are you surviving.

sd^e	she's my baby.	b	Oh.

sd^r	She's my baby,	b	Oh.

sd	She was a miracle baby.	bh	Was she?

sd^e	she really was.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	ba	that's nice.

ny	uh huh.	qy	Do you get to see them?

ny	uh huh.	ba	How nice.

ba	that's really wonderful.	aa	It is,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, just so that they get to know their grandparents, but also for help .

b	Yeah.	sd	we don't have that luxury.

sv	Well they keep you hopping, I'm sure.	aa	They definitely do.

sv	and I think it's excellent because she's getting qualified quality time for, her musical, talents her sports abilities	b	Uh huh.

sd	but that hasn't been, possible.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And, she's tried many, avenues	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	and so now it's just, you know, that she's kind of resolved herself that, yes, this is going to be the only one .	aa	Yeah,

sd	And they're focusing on all of her, welfare.	b	Uh huh,

bk	okay.	sd	And they're part of the Plano Children's Civic Chorus.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they're going to Washington, D. C. next December . to sing for President Bush at the White House at Christmas time.

ba	how wonderful.	qy	Isn't that neat?

ba	Well, that's wonderful.	aa	Yeah,

aa	they are.	sv	and I'm sure when your children grew up you didn't, you know,

aa	No.	sd	I certainly don't remember my parents running me here and there and supporting me in all these things,

sv	Now I think everything is doing, doing, doing, out of the house. Which can be very hectic.	aa	Yeah,

bf	it wasn't so he ,	sd	But on the other hand, we just love watching the kids play and getting to know the other parents

sv	You have to look on that, on the, positive side of that.	sv	It's just different.

sd	it is.	b	Yeah.

bf	It's just a different lifestyle.	b^m	It's just very different.

aa	Yes.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I know what you're talking about when he's involved, you know, the children are involved in that,	b	Uh huh.

o@	know, * slash unit or part of previous slash unit? Yes. / * slash problem, should be ny	bh	really.

ba	And, I know where you're coming from	b	Yeah.

sv	and it's very nice.	aa^m	It is very nice.

sv	I think, those type of children, that are involved in things like that, their, goals are going to be set higher than the average child that are not participating in things.	aa	Well, I think so,

bf	a, a team effort,	aa	Yeah,

sv	That's really is nice to have in your background, that, you know, then you're, you can be very flexible.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, there's less, friction involved in relationships when you add that skill of teamwork.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, I mean a lot of people that are adults are having to go back and learn those basics when our children are already learning that.	aa	Yes,

sv	And I think it's a a, a giant step of progress, I really do.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	The best of, Well, Cathy, I think if you look to the Word of God and, think on the things that are pure and lovely	sd(^q)	Besides don't sweat the small stuff .

ad	and, keep your mind off of negative things.	b	Uh huh.

ad	and stress that to your children.	b	Uh huh.

ad	And, even if they're discouraged, tell them that that's just a passing moment and to dwell on those things that are, not negative and that are positive things in their life	b	Uh huh.

sv	and when you employ the Word of God there's nothing as powerful as the Word of God.	aa	Absolutely.

aa	That's right.	^q	And you owe that back to God because he's given you that ability and that talent

b	Uh huh	sv	and and that's real nice.

aa	Right.	sd	I'm real proud of her.

sv	Well, if she looks, if she looks at it as you suggest that that's, that she can give h , her talent back to the Lord for His glory and she can look at it that way and, that's ...	b	Uh huh.

sd	but now we're not quite so much since the kids are involved so much in sports.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well before we had kids, we was in a motorcycle group, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	We took, just our little tents,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Then when we started having children we bought a camper. You know,	b	uh huh.

sd	and we did it that way.	ba	how neat.

sd	So, we've always enjoyed camping.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then I bought a van

sd	Now we have friends with a van,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and when they go on vacation a lot of times they'll just sleep in the van, you know.	b	Right.

sd	and the next night they'll stay at the motel, you know, or something like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they enjoy it.	b	Yes,

sd	 me either.	sd	All the bugs and stuff .

sd	I hate to be on all that stuff .	sd	but I try, you know, to get out there and enjoy everything.

ba	yeah.	sd	But what was so fun though is that I had to take my son to the doctor this morning because he went out camping with some friends

b	Oh.	sd	and it's all over him.

aa^r	yes.	fe	shoot.

sd	I mean, it's not something I'd want to do real often.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm a sissy.	b	Yeah.

sd	I either want to do it in the fall or spring.	aa	Right.

qh	You know?	bf	Definitely when it's cool.

aa	Yes.	qy	Well, have you done much camping around Texas?

ng	Well, not really because usually it's when we go off, you know, like for a couple weeks or so.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's usually like that.	b	Yeah.

na	Just about.	ba	Wow.

na^r	Just about.	sd	See now I haven't so that,

sd	it really is.	b	Uh huh.

sd^r	It really is.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Also I said we mostly did ours before we started a family.	b	Right,

sd	It's a lot easier then.	sd	Well, I know my parents like to camp a lot,

b	uh huh.	sd	They said they've got the white beaches and the sand,

b	Yes.	sd	and it's not real populated so they feel like they're in the outdoors and still close to the ocean.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, from what I understand from them it's really, really pretty there.

sd	You know, I just like to go.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I really do.	qy	Well, have you done much camping up in Kentucky and those parts, in the mountains?

sd	But usually if we're with a group of people we really don't stay any one place very long.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, like if we're just going through and they camp one night and then head on.	b	Right,

sd	But now that we have children and we go every blue moon, I'd rather just go to Galveston. You know .	b	Yeah

b	Yes.	sd	But we're getting more into it

b	Uh huh.	sd	so that's good.

sd	But by the time we really get a chance to it's July, you know,	b	Right.

sd	and it's so hot.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And our camper doesn't have an air conditioner.	b	yeah.

sd	I'm sure you could put one in probably,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we hadn't did that.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And you know, they're in like scouts and stuff like that, you know, so, they get to go camping in those organizations also.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't, when they do that.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, That really is.	b	Yeah.

qw	Well, how old is your boys, your children?	sd	Well, I, well, I have, a son that's, going to be eleven here pretty soon, and then a daughter that's thirteen.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, they're getting old enough to where they can help out with a campfire and, cooking and all that kind of stuff too.

b	Yes.	ba	So, that's really neat.

sd	Mine's eleven and eight.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, they really enjoy it too.	b	Yeah,

sd	You know, they love to go camping.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they would all the time they wanted, you know, wanted to because there's nothing holding them back.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I'm just not that involved in it.	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	But not on the regular basis.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I just couldn't do that, you know.

sd	I don't know what you would do every , you know.	b	Yeah,

sd	But I guess, my entertainment's, television, I guess .	^2	Just getting away.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But every Friday night they'll go home, you know, straight from work

b	Uh huh.	sd	But anyway that's their life .

^g	don't they?	ny	Yeah,

sd	Well, see, we're in a real small county area,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, you know, that makes a big difference.	aa	Now that's true.

sd	Because if we want to go camping we can just go just a few miles, you know .	aa	Yeah

fc	It was nice talking to you too,	fc	Okay.

fc	and we'll probably be talking to you again.	fc	Okay,

fc	bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qy	do you have an idea of how much.	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm only twenty nine.

bk	okay.	sd	So, social changes aren't that much for me either.

sv	and maybe that's changed a lot. the way people dress	b	Well, yeah,

br^m	More lax?	aa	Uh huh,

sv	Maybe a people are a little more open minded than maybe they used to be.	sd	I think so.

b	Uh huh.	sd^r	I think so,

sv	Especially with like a lot of the different organizations now like, you know, Pro Life and Pro , Choice in the special interest groups maybe like amnesty.	b	Right.

sv	maybe people are a little more, free to express their opinions, socially free.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	and and like you said, pro choice and whatnot.

b	Right.	sv	I think that's become more outstanding than it used to be where women, I think used to be a little bit afraid of coming out and saying something.

sv	Just wasn't socially acceptable.	aa	No,

sv	and we have to worry about, maybe people are becoming more, more afraid of relationships.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, we didn't have to talk about,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, I'm not naive, to think that my children are not going to not do it.

b	Yeah.	sd	It wasn't that long that I was that young.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I've got a ten year old,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it's just different things you have to talk to them about now that you would never even have dreamt to have to say anything about.

sv	It's a it's a much different,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you can't just hope for abstinence.	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sv	and it always will be,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, the boys are very open because that's all I have is boys, so that's all I'm around basically, is boys,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they talk about things that my brother didn't talk about until he was in college you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they sit down

aa	That's right.	sd	You can't give them, the, you know, Cabbage Patch answers and stuff.

b	Yeah.	sd	that just does not go.

b	Right.	sd	And they can tell me, basically some things that I don't know .

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it's interesting, listening to them.

sv	kids are a lot more educated now than I think that, like we were, at that age about a lot of things.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and, students learn it earlier.	sd	I know,

qy	what are your favorite things to watch?	^h	let's see,

b	Uh huh.	sd	some comedy shows, I can not think of, off hand,

b	Yeah.	qw	but, what are your,

sd	I like that real well. And CHEERS	b	Yeah.

qy	do you ever watch that?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I was sort of sorry to see it go too.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I think it had some good situations that it presented.

sd	like the problems that Michael and Hope had in their marriage and stuff, I can relate to some of those things.	b	Yeah.

sd	Just the dynamics of it and everything.	sv	Well, I think a lot of people, you know, kind of felt that way,

b	really.	sd	and you know, that they called interaction between people and sort of to use as, as a way of getting people to talk about their problems,

b	Yeah.	sd	and that sort of thing .

b	Uh huh.	sv	that tends to, put a cramp in your viewing, because by the time you get through getting her ready for bed and everything, it's, very little T V time left.

bf	you are too tired to do anything.	b	Yeah.

sv	it's better to spend time with your kids, I think though, than glued in front of the T V anyway.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I don't think there's as many good things to watch as there used to be, really.	aa	No,

b	yeah.	sd	I notice it's like, it's like THIS OLD HOUSE,

b	Oh.	sd	But, it's kind of interesting because they renovate an old house

sv	it is interesting.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Do you watch sports much on T V?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, baseball to me is a little hard to watch on T V, for an extended period.

sv	It's slow.	aa	Yeah,

sv	But, you can not take a whole lot of that either,	b	Yeah.

sv	it's pretty slow.	aa	Yeah,

sd	we went to the movies a lot on weekends and watch them at home, because there's just, on Friday and Saturday nights there's nothing good on	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know we have done that too in the past,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, you know, we used to rent, two or three movies on a weekend and try to watch.

qy	Do you have cable T V?	nn	No,

sd	We do not either.	sd	we live in,

sd	I thought we were the only ones , who did not have it.	aa	No.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but when they built our section did not put it in

ba	Gosh.	sd	and they still do not have it

b	Yeah.	sd	I have contacted them about this

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so they look

sd	we just had all the normal ones, that come	b	Yeah.

sd	and it seemed like we did not watch even half an hour,	b	Yeah.

sd	that's the only thing.	aa	Yeah.

sd^t*	Well, I can not, think of too much else to say. * typo cannot? Since we are not big watchers.	b	Right.

fc	Well, it was nice talking to you.	fc	Alright,

qy	Well, if you had to pick a type of music that you like, would you be able to? / * functions as a qw	nd	Well, I could pick country music. / * answered as if to a qw

qy^m	Country music?	sd	As I've gotten older, I've started listening more to the words of music and to the softer melodies.

o@	* slash error are you from Texas? / * slash error	ng	Not originally.

qw	Where you from?	sd	Georgia.

sd	so , I'm kind of in a different category here.	qw	If you had to pick one, what would you choose?

h	so, there you go .	sd	Well, I understand what you're saying.

sv	It's always about some guy losing some girl and then, you know, playing the guitar and singing about it.	sd	Well, there's some joy in it also.

qy	Do you consider her country?	no	I don't know.

sv	That would be good.	sd	Well, I like groups like the Statler Brothers. And the Judds, certainly.

sv	I must admit yeah, they're fantastic,	sd	Reba McIntire is a little too country for me.

sv	She's got so much energy .	aa	That's true.

qy	is she kind of country?	ny	yes.

b^r	Kind of .	sd	That's certainly where her roots are.

qo	how about the Oak Ridge Boys.	na	Very much so.

sd	I've picked up a little bit along the way that I probably wouldn't have if I'd stayed up north, you know.	aa	That's true.

sv	But maybe twenty years from now they'll look at it as classic rock and roll which I really like	sd	Well, it's just difficult for me to believe that anybody's ever going to make a record of the rap songs of the eighties.

aa	right,	b	Yeah

sd	so, I mean, if it stands the test of time, we'll see.	aa	That's true.

sv(^q)	if it survives, then it'll just probably be one or two songs that sort of, hey listen what we listened to .	b	Yeah

sd	and, you know, all these rock stations call it classic soft rock, you know .	b	Right.

sd	But we used to listen to it full blast .	aa	Of course.

qy	Well, you got any more?	sv	Well, the big key is that, I think you've already stated, that all music is rooted in the classics

co	and, I'll look at some country.	ba	You bet.

fc	Bye bye	fc	Bye bye.

sd	And I feel like that now if I had gone to a small college that only had a couple of thousand that I wouldn't have gotten as much exposure to different people and I don't know, different languages, different cultures, and things like that just by being around those fifty thousand students.	ba	That's interesting,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I thought that was the best experience in that we had more one on one since we seemed to know everyone on campus,

b	Huh.	sd	and we had a broad spectrum of languages and cultures and backgrounds, and so forth,

b	Huh.	sd	so, I thought it was wonderful to be a bigger fish and not so much a number,

b	Uh huh.	sd	one of fifty thousand, I was one of three thousand, and, you know, different perspectives,

b	Yeah.	sv	but it sounds like we were both kind of looking at the same sort of thing.

sd	so, actually, yes, you were a number.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I'm sure a lot of people come to, you know, small colleges also but just that they're more of the different cultures there,	b	Uh huh,

sv	but I'm just saying that I think that big,	sv	That's one thing to definitely consider.

sd	I have my friends,	b	Uh huh

sd	and I'm really not as concerned about the entire city, so when you go to a big university, you're not as concerned , about the entire university, but your group of friends, your classes, your interests, your clubs and things like that.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and whereas some would immediately feel very comfortable in this, larger university setting, some of the students, when I was teaching school would not have been comfortable with that.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	They needed, at least at first, they needed a smaller setting that was more like family where they could get one on one, from teachers, professors and so forth, and then after a year or two move on to a little bit bigger pond where, when they had a little more self confidence built up, yes, I can do this, I've done this before, it's just in a bigger setting,

b	Right.	sd	and so maybe to me the key would be what is a the, the students needs,

b	Uh huh.	sd@	and what school or schools can best meet those needs besides education yo , you can expect all of them with, a , accreditat , accreditation to give the education / * seems that this should be 2 slash units, the second starting at "yo "

b	Uh huh.	sv	but they're the things that don't show up in,

^2	On paper.	aa	That's right,

sd	but it wasn't like a real priority.	b	Right.

sd	and one other point I was going to make, was that I can see that probably if I had gone to a smaller school, I would probably have more friends, because like you said, you know, you know, everybody knows everybody,	b	Huh.

sv	you may walk into a company and see someone you went to school with, more so at a small college then a large college.	b	Uh huh.

^h	I guess, let me think of another important thing to look at when you look into college,	sd	I guess now I've been out for,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I was looking at an annual last night,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it was church related.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I got to looking at my class of sixty nine,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I realized that even though that school's two hundred miles from here

ba	Wow.	sd	and it's neat to know that we have that contact that goes back that some of the same memories if not the same education in,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, we weren't all out to be teachers or whatever

ba	That's great.	sd	And it's, it's kind of neat just knowing that those kinds of things, those are what I carry beyond that piece of paper that allows me to be an exempt at T I,

b^r	right.	sd	I have something more important to me than that.

sd	I've been out of college only two years now, , so it's still pretty fresh on my memory, 	b	Uh huh.

sd	okay, let me go back to my sister now is in college, and my father was really interested in getting her in a school that would look good on her, diploma, etcetera, and so forth,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I wanted her to get the life experience, out of it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	she went the academic way because she's a straight A student, which is,	sd	I was going to ask who won .

sd	but that was the big deal	sv	in that case, regardless of what you or your father pushed for it sounds like she was going for what she needed, and finding a school that met her specific requirements, and made the best fit for her.

sv	And that's another point is that, a parent should tell their child to be or to give their child the leeway to choose their school, not so much choose the school for them but, you know, kind of guide them along but let them more or less choose what they need and what they're going to do.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I could live at home.

b	Right.	sd	But I chose to go to another school

b	Huh. Right,	sd	and I think I value my education more because I had to work for it.

b	uh huh.	sd	And because I knew all along that's what I wanted, even though I had to buck the family in order to do what I needed to do.

sv	Well, that was pretty courageous .	sd	I guess it was my mother's support that got me through it, that and ten years of, loans , after I got out .

o@	so. * slash error yes, / * slash error	qy^g	Sounds familiar,

sd	That memory just seeps back in my mailbox.	b	Yeah,

bd	well, I guess I'll get over it.	sv	I'm sure it was worth it though.

aa	yeah.	sd	if nothing else because I work in training at T I now,

b	Uh huh.	sv	if nothing else just those experiences beyond and including your educational classes that help give you the self esteem to do and achieve, whatever you set your mind on,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you made the right choice in going to a school that met all of your needs to give you the potential to do whatever you wanted.

sd	I'm finding out now that what I'm needing the most now is not smarts, not what I can do on paper, it's stamina, courage, ,	sv	Young lady, you have gotten your education then,

sd	words, it,	aa	that's right.

sd	you know, my, I'm needing to rely on myself,	b	Yeah.

qo^t	So what are your feelings on the topic today as far as crime in America today?	sv	Well, I think some of the blame can be placed on plea bargaining and people getting less time and not serving any of the, or a lot less of the, time they're given by the court system,

b	Yeah.	h	but, I don't know,

sv	I mean, it's like a bonus to go to jail.	b	Right.

sd	and, when he uses up all that and spends all that money, then he, starts robbing houses again or whatever and gets caught again and goes through the same thing.	sd	Well, there was an article in our paper Sunday that the average person sentenced to seven to ten years in North Carolina, serves six weeks .

sv	Now, see, you talk about, that's a crime right there.	sd	Well, see, we don't have any room in our prisons

sd	Well, we don't either, in Texas.	sd	they shuttle them in and shuttle them out

sv	it's terrible the way it is right now.	sv	I think the general public is so overwhelmed by things right now, so many different things coming in so many different directions that they've just decided to become apathetic towards it all because they realize there's abs ,

sv	as far as steps to reduce crime, if it's, crimes like we're just been discussing, obviously we need more prisons and more corrective facilities to put these people in to, take them off the streets,	b	Yeah.

sv	it's not right to put them in there and let them live for years and years and w , years before you do execute them or whatever because has to be very costly to feed a prisoner and to clothe him	b	Yeah.

sv	and everything else, you know, they can have a good time in.	sd	Well, I don't know what the answer is,

sd	I'm, I'm pretty much of a hard person,	sd	I hope so.

sd	I mean, you know, if it's just downright, outright,	sd	I definitely believe in capital punishment.

sv	I mean, that's the only way to,	sd	it's when they're on death row for nineteen years that I'm kind of curious about.

sv	it's just unbelievable.	aa	Yeah,

bh	Can you really?	ny	Yeah,

ba	God.	sd	and then, after that it goes to the Supreme Court of the United States

sv	Meanwhile, you're living in a country club situation perhaps, you know.	sv	They're hoping,

b	Yes.	sv	But it's just a,

sv	The drug problem, that's another one.	sv	The fundamental problem is,

sd	so I get most of my news like from documentaries like FORTY EIGHT HOURS, TWENTY TWENTY, you know, the news at night. News in the afternoon, that kind of thing.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they have community newspapers around here so their extremely local stuff is in the local paper that comes out once a week

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I get the Sunday, MILWAUKEE JOURNAL because I don't have time to read a paper.

b	Right.	sd	I get my news pretty much from the same sources as you do, although I do listen to N P R which has very good, and that's National Public Radio which has very good, coverage of the national and international news, and does a pretty good job of analysis as well.

qy	Are you in the car quite a bit	nn	No,

b	Oh.	sd	and when I'm not teaching, if I choose to have the radio on I can listen to that station,

bk	I see.	qy	are you satisfied with the TWENTY TWENTY and FORTY EIGHT HOURS and the things that you do watch?

sd	and I watch the news at least twice a day.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so it seems as if I catch the news right as it happens, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I usually find out exactly when it happens and that kind of thing.	qy	Is that the aspect of the news that you're most interested in is the timely noting of the events as they happen?

sd	It's just that, now that I've stayed home, I'm usually aware of when these things occurred	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it happened	sd	Well, I, myself, the reason why I listen to N P R and the reason why I watch MACNEIL LEHRER, rather than the network news shows at night, although I do watch a local ten o'clock in the evening news which carries over a lot of the national news stories is that quite often it seems to me the national doesn't do a very good job of analysis.

b^r	right.	sd	The local doesn't either

b	Uh huh	sv	And perhaps newspapers do that

b	Huh.	sv	So. there is some danger to that, of course, too.

sv	It kind of gives you the whole story or more of the story.	b	Uh huh.

h	That kind of thing.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I like to stand back and get a slightly bigger picture.

sd	And it's pretty interesting.	qy^g	you have young children, right?

ny	Uh huh.	qy^d	So those evening shows are probably also at a time when you're at liberty to take some time off and be in front of the T V set for awhile without interruption.

sd^e	Plus, I find that I have to video tape quite a bit of things .	bh	you do?

sd	If I don't want any interruptions, you know.	b	Uh huh.

h	That kind of thing.	qw	When is your good watching time?

sd	it seems like ten o'clock at night .	b	Uh huh.

sd^r	but that's what it seems like, ten o'clock at night.	sd	I have older children and getting dinner on the table.

b	Uh huh .	sd	I come from the east coast

sd^t	I just pressed my,	sd^t	We're supposed to talk about recent political developments.

sv	I think that's kind of an interesting recent thing, that I could think of recently that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I was wondering what you thought about that getting a general into politics.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they said in general, generals are more familiar with training, that they believe in training more.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	So, I thought well, maybe.	sv	I think they probably have a better education than the average congressman.

sv	and Schwartzkopf, you know, might make a good, politician, whether it be Governor or whatever, you know.	sv	he, you know, we know he's a good leader,

sv	everyone has a boss, of course.	sd	You know, Schwartzkopf was ordered to get Iraq out of Kuwait.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	And so he went to the President and said, okay, here's how I want to do it.

aa^r	that's true.	b	Uh huh.

sv	That was, pretty easy	b	Yeah.

ad	go ahead.	sd	Well, the thing that I'm wondering about is how we get a new congress.

sd	Well, I have an easy answer for that, I wish they would do it, is that limit it, you know, to eight or ten years max.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, whether that's two five year terms or whatever.	b	yeah.

ar	you know, you're not.	sd	I think if the President, be him Republican or Democrat,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think the reason why we've got these guys in Congress is because of the fund raising rules.

b	Yeah.	sv	Basically the people,

sd	that would be my answer of an easy way to get these guys out of there for twenty years.	b	Yeah,

sv	My God, it's ridiculous, you know.	sv	that's the easy way.

sd	I can't believe that a country our big votes for a President from seven o'clock in the morning til seven o'clock at night, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's just, if you really want the majority of the people to vote then give them a couple of days.	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	sv	You know, like, you know, the recent election about how the Dallas City Council should be made up, that election last December.

qy	Are you in Dallas?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I am so happy not to be part of Dallas when I see those folks there.	b	Yeah.

qw	what is the woman's name whose, not the mayor but the, / * typo should be who's	^2	The manager.

sv	I mean, they're just awful, just awful.	sd	Well, what get's me is this thing, it went down to defeat last December by how many votes, by just a few hundred votes.

b	Uh huh	sv	And if it had passed,

sv	and then they don't even do that recommendation, you know.	b	Uh huh,

sv	I mean, it's amazing the money that they spend once they get in.	sd	but this is supposedly to benefit the minorities,

aa	Well you're right there.	sv	and they would have had their way.

sv	the voting is still not as much as you think in all kinds of issues really.	aa	Yeah,

sd	hopefully people will get more involved.	sd	my position is people who don't vote don't have any right to complain about the way the government's going.

sd	The guys that don't take any interest in, and constantly on the negative of everything.	b	Uh huh.

bh	And, Is that right?	sd	and you ask them why they don't vote,

sv	I think they could do more about, voting.	sv^m	I think they could.

sd	I could go out and debate George Bush better than I see any Democrat doing it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	because I like competition, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd*	I can not believe it, you know. / * typo cannot	sv	In Presidential races that's about what they've done,

qy^t	How many times have you called, by the way?	sd^t	Actually, I haven't made any calls,

b	really, I, I,	sd^t	I think, yeah, I have to make these,

qy^t	You get any cards in the mail?	ny	Yeah,

sd	We'll get to politics, I'm sorry .	sd^t	Well, I think we've used up as much time as we're supposed to anyway.

aa^r	right.	sd^t	We're supposed to do five minutes,

b	Yeah.	ft	Hey, well thanks for the call.

fc	bye bye.	fc	Yeah,

o	Okay.	b	Okay,

na	Right.	qw	why did you check music?

br^m	Why did I pick music?	aa	Uh huh.

sd	plus I like, to listen to music.	b	Uh huh.

sd	is what I really listen to most of the time.	qw	Like what kind of oldies?

sd	Usually in the fifties.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think it's a fifties, sixties, and seventies station that I listen to.	b	Uh huh,

bh	really.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	but I know a lot of the old songs.	b	Uh huh,

ba	yeah.	sd	and it is excellent.

b	Uh huh.	qy	do you listen,

sd^e	I have.	b	Okay.

sd	I played the accordion for seven years	o@	Really. * slash error at the same time, or, / * slash error should be qy

sd	and I played that all through high school.	b	Uh huh.

ny	yes.	b	Yeah,

bk	okay.	sd	So, and, my wife played flute in high school.

sd	And then in concert band I played the bass clarinet.	b	Really

b	Yeah.	b	really.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Actually that's exactly the same thing my ex wife did .

bh	really.	ny	Yes,

sd	and I really enjoyed it.	sd	Well, I like it,

b	Uh huh.	qy	do you go to listen to much live music?

br	Pardon me?	qy	Do you listen to much live music, like concerts or things there?

sd^e	I really don't go to very many concerts.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	qy	You know, you know whom I'm talking about?

ny	Yes.	sd	And he's coming to Dallas on the twenty ninth,

ba	wow.	sd	My sons are kind of into Broadway.

sd	I would love to be able to go see LES MISERABLES.	sd	And he does it,

ba	my gosh.	sd	and one of the,

ba	Holy smoke.	sd	So, he's been to, they've been to see it several times.

sd	I would love to go see that, and CATS CHORUS LINE	b	Yeah.

sd	I would love to be able to go see those.	qy	don't any of those ever come to Pittsburgh?

sd	and so I really didn't have the chance or the money to go see them.	b	Sure.

b	Uh huh.	ad	So if it comes to Pittsburgh in the road shows, and I think they have three different companies that tour the U S, you should go see it, because it's really outstanding.

sd	and he said it was the best thing he'd ever seen	b	Right.

sd^r	and he doesn't even like that type of stuff.	sv	Well, I think it's just incredible.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	And they went to it,

sd	He's more into the New Wave music,	b	Yeah,

sd	I guess, I don't know either, you know,	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)	and I thought, my gosh, .	bf	So he listens to New Wave

aa	Yeah	sv	That's kind of different.

sd	I'll listen to anything basically, except I don't like the real hard metal rock.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I like some country.	sd	Well, now we don't listen to much country,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That is excellent.

qy	Do you like Randy Travis?	sd	I mean, I've probably heard him,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Garth Brooks is probably the only country album we have,

qy	Hank Williams Junior?	nn	Nope,

b	Oh.	sd	so these are a bunch of old recordings.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She bought that the same night we bought the Nat King Cole and the Garth Brooks.

sv	well, those should be good albums.	sd	It is pretty good.

sd	If you have the chance,	sd	it's a little too country for me,

b	uh huh.	sd	I like the Garth Brooks album a lot.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's pretty good,

sd	He's really country himself	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, you know, I, I really enjoy listening to his music.	qw	which of his albums do you think is the best?

ad	If I were you, I would get the Greatest Hits album if he had one, because you know, that would have a mixture of all his, you know, top songs on it.	b	Okay.

sd	I can't, you know, name the names of them off hand	b	Uh huh.

sd	and all my brothers and sisters listen to them, even the ones that like the heavy metal they really enjoy listening to him,	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know, maybe if you did like Hank Williams and Garth, you know, maybe you would enjoy Randy Travis.	sd	Well, I think we'll probably get one of his albums, because we do kind of like it,

b	Yeah,	sv	So, so it's good.

qy	I was going to say do you know any other country singers that you would, you know, I mean, the women, do you like the ,	ny	Yeah,

qo	What about you ?	^h	Well, let's see.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I'm not sure how much I'm getting back

b	Yeah.	sd	It's not too much.

b	Yeah.	sd	Not too bad though .

sv@	I guess it's where we have to be, we have to keep raising them to keep some of the things that we have and . It's just scary though about, you know.	aa	Yeah.

qh	How high are the taxes going to be when my children are my age?	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know, that's, that's scary too.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, you know, that's a scary part too, that you have to think about.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, taxes are one of the ways to help pay for a lot of the things that are needed in this society.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, everything you know, from medicare to social security to feeding the h , to, you know, feeding the homeless, to maintaining prisons, to maintaining polices or fire departments and things like that.

b	Uh huh	sd	but someone has to pay for it

sv	and that's kind of scary too .	b	Uh huh

sd	I wanted to see that program.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, makes you wonder when there's, you know, countries out there that have, you know, tax rates of like close to fifty percent or higher.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And that's kind of a scary thought.

b	Yeah	sv	But, on the other hand, while those countries that have high taxes, also have things like, socialized medicine, things like that too, which are nice fringe benefits of it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it's good

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean it can be argued one way or another whether economically it's actually good for the country or good for any given country to have that because those countries have be, tend to have a much slower cash flow and don't generate a, a large amount of revenue because there's so little, currency flow through out the economic system .

sv	Well you sure do know a lot .	bd	Well, just keeping up with the times, that's all.

b^r	, yeah.	sd	as it turns out, you know, it's one of those interests , you know, I kind of like to keep up on.

b	Uh huh.	sd	work hard to get, you know.

aa	That's true.	b	Uh huh.

qo	What do you think about these items that are going to be, taxed even more. Like, tobacco and that kind of thing .	sv	I think in a way it's good, in a way it's not.

b	Right.	sd*	as far as the safety thing, in San Luis Obispo, for example, there's an ordnance which states that, there's no smoking in any public areas. / * typo ordinance

fp	Mike, I'm calling from Dallas, from Richardson.	ba	okay, great.

sd^t	You know, our subject is on boating and sailing	b	Right.

sd	and, quite honestly, with the exception of being involved in a part ownership of a little bass boat, I have never really got into sailing or boating.	sd	I do, quite a bit of sailing.

ba	do you, well, great.	sd	and we take it out

ba	Well, that's neat.	sd	It's just I don't have a trailer hitch on my car anymore

b	Right.	sd	so it's hard for me to get it somewhere

sd	it must have slept four people anyway.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	but you couldn't really sleep in there unless you sort of stuck your body out the hole, back into the main part of the sailboat.

ba	I I understand.	sv	they can be black holes to throw money into .

aa	I tell you, they are,	sv	Boats are kind of expensive to maintain.

sd	and I think of all the time, now that my kids are gone and away and married and going to college or whatever, that I put in there, I just could not imagine a boat because I know it's a lot of maintenance.	sv	Especially a bigger one.

ba	gosh	sv	The bigger they are, if you get a big cabin cruiser or or a big ski boat, power boat, then there's always, stuff to go wrong with it.

aa	You bet.	sd	A sailboat at least doesn't have an engine to mess up,

aa	Sure.	sv	It takes a, a pretty good amount of maintenance to keep one up

aa^m	It is a lot of fun.	sv	and when you work hard and you're under pressure and everything all week long, a boat can be a lot of relaxation, especially with a group of friends and cook out or camp out or whatever, or a cabin or something, depending on how much you like to rough it.

sd	and they go boat.	^2	Use the boat for transportation.

sd	if they want to go to the lounge to have a cocktail, they use the boat.	bf	They just go across the boat and tie it up and go in, huh

sd	I'm envious, I'm envious of people that have the big boats	sv	That would be fun.

aa	You bet.	sd	I might just donate my little one to the scout troop and let them, keep it and maybe consider getting a better one for me.

qy	you think you'd really enjoy it?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And if you get a big enough one, then you've got a little motor on it also, where if it's light wind, you can still putt around a little bit and have fun.

ba	that's great.	sd	and you're just stranded out there trying to pick up what little gusts you can to work your way back in

aa	I know.	sd	And if you're a big enough boat to have the little auxiliary motor on there, at least you can kind of drop the sails and putt on back in .

ba	Well, that's neat.	sv	But it's fun.

qw	Who are you with?	sd	I own an insurance agency, a managing general, a wholesaler of insurance, out in Addison

ba	Well, good.	sd	and, I'm a scout leader, though,

qw	What are your favorite programs?	sd	it's kind of hard to put my finger on a favorite T V program,

ba	how funny.	sd	It's going to be its last show.

sd	well I think I've seen it in the distance.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I have not seen the program.	by	well, That's a shame.

sd	people recognized Dallas, Texas, by the Texas, the cowboys and by that program.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It took me a long time, they're talking about the viaducts.	b	Uh huh.

qy^g	that is right, isn't it?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I felt really dumb.	sd	Well, it's, it's,

sd	I thought it was going to Oak Cliff over the Trinity.	b	Yeah.

bh	do they?	sd	One from the east and one from the west.

bk	I see.	sd	But it kind of confuses people.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And then there's other ones that, deal with, in a funny manner, socially relevant things.

sd	I usually read and watch T V.	b	Uh huh.

o@	And usually I can handle both at the same time, you know. * slash error Because I am pretty sure where the T V plot's going. / * slash segmentation error, should be independent slash unit	b	Yeah.

sd	Because it's funny.	aa	Yes.

sd	I really enjoy that one.	aa	Yes.

sd	and the ones that sometimes will hook me, to put down my book, will be the one, there was one, recently about the Gettysburg Address.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they wrapped a fictional story around it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I thought that was well done.	b	Uh huh.

o@	and I'd never miss it for a minute. * slash error Especially the beauty pageants. / * slash problem	b	Yeah.

sv	I really dislike those.	sd	Well I'm one of those rare guys, who, I rarely ever sit down and watch a whole sporting event, if ever watch one.

"	if it's convenient he'll listen to it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But he just doesn't watch them on T V like he used to.	sv	Well I think it was great when they were, you know, like world champs and they were doing real well.

b	Yeah	sd	And, when I came down to Dallas, you know, I found myself rooting for the home team.

sd	Well, I actually got to go see them win in the Super Bowl when they went down to New Orleans.	ba	wow.

sd	and, that was a lot of fun.	o@	Huh. * slash error Yeah. / * should be independent slash unit

sd	But what is a lot of fun to go attend, is this arena football.	b	Huh.

sd	I like it so much better than straight football.	b	No,

sd	it has a lot of different rules.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The field is half the size	b	Uh huh.

sd	It moves a lot faster.	sd	Gee, I'll have to try to catch that sometime.

sd	again I think it may be on cable more than anything else.	b	Yeah,

sd	We don't have cable.	aap	that's probably true.

b	Oh.	sd	You know, having movies, back then it was ninety nine cents.

sd	They're everywhere, they're on every corner.	aa	Yeah.

sd;sv	Everything you've ever wanted to see.	sd	You can see them a lot sooner than you can see them on any of the stations like H B O or Cinemax.

sd	Well, and I like to rent tapes because you can put the thing on hold if you get a telephone call or something like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the only thing, this DANCE WITH WOLVES, I want to see it in a theater.	aa	yes.

sd	Because I understand that, you'll lose fifty percent of it if you don't.	aa	Yeah.

aa	That's what I hear too.	sd	And, so I'm hoping I can get her talked into it soon.

sd	We will do it.	ba	That's great.

o	finally.	b	Yeah.

"	my job tends to be very demanding.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you have any personal feelings on the subject?	sv	Well, capital punishment is a hard thing,

b	uh huh.	sd	There have been some things, you know,

aa^r	I know.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Well I guess my concern is what we are reading, especially in Texas right now with them letting the people out of jail as soon as they are out of prison and having them go right back the day they get out, back in crime. And especially when they are assaulting, people and then killing people, I mean, the man who, killed those three sheriffs deputies, he is out free, walking the street.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I have a real problem, with that.	aa	Yeah,

aa	I think so.	sv	But, it's something that's really hard to deal with, the way that our justice system is right now, is basically set up in lawyers

aa	Right.	sv	They are the ones with the rights.

o@	Well, * slash unit, since A's next turn does not pick up this false start Does not have the right . * slash error Right. / * slash error	sv	They have the right to, you know,

b	Right.	h	whatever they call them, you know.

sd	And meanwhile, the witnesses, move and die	aa	Uh huh,

sd	and there's no one to face them.	sd	They can get continuances on for years, before the thing ever comes to trial

sv	Well, they can not get any, if the judge is going to have any award to the victim, it just puts off their collecting it. / * probably should be cannot	aa	Yeah,

sv	It's, it's really bad,	sv	I think you know, that there needs to be a way that, you know, once someone has gone through, you know, a trial, I do not know how to fix it.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	You know, when someone has been,

sv	A time limit too.	aa	Yeah,

sv,o@	Do not let it, / * Seems that this is continued in A.59	sv	when someone ha ,

sv,o@	drag on for fifteen years, / * See note above	sd	Well, even when someone has been convicted

b	Right.	sd	But appealing, you know, and continuing to appeal, like four or five or six times.

qrr	or, are there some murders committed that you think leniency should be shown.	b	Oh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Okay, I could see that that might be the situation where, the person could be rehabilitated.

qo	And how do you feel about murders of law officers or fire people or something that are, because they have had them, they have had them killed when they have,	sd	Well, what bothers me,

o@	* slash error That was their goal. / * slash error	sd	and they had told their teachers that I mean,

b	Oh.	sd	and so that's what they did .

bf	That would be premeditated .	aa	absolutely.

o@	* slash error They killed him. / * slash error	sd	He stopped them for routine traffic violation

b	Uh huh.	sd	we had gone out, with he and his wife

b	Uh huh.	sd	And these people, you know, in the course of the trial, you know, came up with all these, you know, things about well, you know, they were disadvantaged and all this stuff.

sv	there's no reason, for murder.	b^m	And there's just no rea , I mean,

sv	I do not care if you are poor or if you are rich or if you are, ugly or what that's just beyond, the,	aa	Yeah,

sd	and all these kids, they have got an excuse for everything.	b	Yeah.

sv,o@	it's just a bad habit, kids have got to learn from the time they are real little, there's no excuse for being bad or making bad choices deliberate or anything. / * 2 slash units?	b	Yeah.

sd	if especially violent crime, where serial type killer or maybe a child has been deliberately killed.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Right.	sv	You know, they stay in jail, they get off time for good behavior and all that stuff, and they get released .

b	Uh huh.	sv	And they go right back and do it again.

sv	and their real estate up there is, I mean ridiculous, absolutely ridiculous.	b	Oh.

sd	and it's just the one, it's a one bedroom.	qw	And how big is it?

sd	but I prefer to live in a nice part of town because I feel safe here.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I, I pay more to feel safe, you know.	b	Right,

br	You mean in a one bedroom?	qr	Like washer, dryer or,

sd	nothing.	b^m	Nothing.

sd	I have ceiling fan,	ba	Wow.

sd	I guess that's something.	b	Yeah.

sd,o@	It's real cute it's got a little vaulted ceiling and mirrored, / * 2 slash units?	qw	Which one is it?

sd	Woodhollow,	qw	Where is tha ,

sd	right next to Village Green,	bk	okay,

sd	kind of far north Waco.	b	Yeah,

bf	far north, like on Lake Shore where all those apartments are,	aa	Yeah,

sd	it's right up there,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it's a three bedroom two bath,

b	Uh huh.	h	and, it's, it, I don't know

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and, it's about sixteen hundred square feet, which is fine for the two of us.

b	Right.	sd	But it, you know, we looked at a lot of houses that had more square footage,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they didn't use it right, you know.

b	uh huh.	sd	It was a bunch of empty, you know, hallway and stuff that cur ,

aa^r	yeah.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, you know, I think we you know, got a good deal on it.

sv	So that looks good when you all get ready to sell, you'll probably do really well.	aa	Yeah,

sd	we're originally from the East.	b	really,

sd	I know I want a big family area,	aa	Yeah,

sd	and every,	ba	Wow.

sd	I mean, it was just, the ultimate party room, you know,	b	Uh huh,

sd	But that's pretty nice.	sd	But that's what we had,

sd	I don't like to have a lot of things out, you know, just all over the place,	b	Yeah,

sd	I like to have them kind of tucked away.	sd	And, so that's what we went for first

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, some places have,

b	Right.	sd	But to stick a wall between two rooms didn't do anything for us just so we could have a living room and a den.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, we opted for the just, the whole wide room, that went from one end of the house to the other, just about.

sd	he had the kitchen, kind of a kitchen and a very long family room,	b	Yeah.

sd	and what he did, he put, a bar right in the center, and put a glass rack down, so you had like wine glasses hanging from the ceiling and then the bar	b	Oh.

sd	Because I personally don't like the combination rooms.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you know, we have a,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It is just really,

sd	I'd like a big backyard.	sd	And, we really liked it,

^2	A little hot.	aa	yeah.

ad	Try to do it early in the mornings.	sd	But, it's nice

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they've lived there and have it all built up, you know,

ba	Wow.	sd	we don't have a neighbor's fence coming up to ours. You know, right up to our bathroom window or whatever it is. Like a lot of the little model homes that they you know throw up in three days.

qr	are you looking for a house, or not.	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	in fact, we talked about that just a little bit, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we were joking around about, winning a sweepstakes, and what would we do with the money

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and Steve said we'll I'll buy a bigger house

ba	really.	sd	You know, you know cause I like where it is

b	uh huh.	sd	But when we found it, we knew it.

bf	You knew that was it.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I move a lot anyway, because the job I have I only work,	b	Yeah.

sd	I can move up,	qw	Where?

sd	I'm a news reporter.	bk	okay.

sd	I work at Channel Six.	bk	okay.

sd	so I won't be here very long,	b	Right.

sd	so I'm not even looking to buy anything as permanent as house, you know,	b	Right.

sd	so. It's no biggie.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and to put it all back into an apartment would just never work .

aa^r	yeah.	sd	God, I can't believe we moved out of an apartment and had this much stuff

b	Yeah.	sd	Of course we got it on, a little bit of more furniture and stuff,

sd	like I'm amazed at how much stuff I've accumulated in my apartment, because, up to this point I was in school so I'd go home every summer	b	Yeah.

sd	and I could take all my stuff home, because I didn't have a bed or a couch or any of that,	b	Yeah.

^q	I can't go back home for the summer or anything, I have too much stuff.	b	Yeah.

sd	so I have to move in apartments just because I have so much stuff.	b	Yeah,

sv^r	it's not.	sv	for Waco

aa	yeah.	sd	and especially around Lake Shore area, that area's picked up quite a bit since we were there,

sd	there are tons of apartments down here, I mean,	aa	Yeah,

sd	I think they're called Lake Shore Villa or something.	sd	the ones next door to those,

sd	there was a nursing home or something right there.	aa	Yeah

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And we lived in those third ones

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	we drive by now and think, gosh, you know, look how much it's changed

qw	How often do you all come through Waco?	sd	every now and then,

bf	Depends on what's going on.	aa	yeah,

b	yeah.	sd	We used to run to you know, Red Lobster

bk	all right .	sd	we don't have to run that far .

b^r	uh huh.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I mean I'm not a real estate person or anything,	b	Yeah.

sv	and then the houses are all, most of the houses are pretty nice,	b	Yeah.

sv	and people are pretty stable here.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, I kind of see this as kind of a retirement community, as I always call it.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	And it's nice too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I liked living there.

sd	but , I'll deal with it.	sv	I guess we chewed up the house market, and apartment market for a while.

fc	okay well it was very nice talking to you.	fc	You too, Tanya.

fc	you take care,	fc	All right.

fc	bye, bye.	fc	Bye, bye.

qw	what types of music do you like to listen to?	sd	Well, I primarily listen to classical music when I have my druthers, partly because I find it more soothing.

sd	but I'm not sure which composers or which I really like,	b	Right.

sd	so I kind of hesitate to buy something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	There are certain kinds I like and certain kinds I don't.	sd	I tend to listen to the classical music, on the radio a lot.

sd	I understand that.	qy	are you involved in music?

sd	and I don't sing aloud, to anybody but myself .	sd	Well, my whole family is somewhat musical, and not from training, but just because we sing in our choir

sd	I guess I'm real old fashioned in my musical tastes.	ar	No,

aa	Yes.	sv	It's loud and repetitious without having a great deal of meaning.

b	Right.	sd	but, the more popular music I don't care for, usually.

b	Yeah.	sd	even when I was a teenager I didn't really like the music of that period so much because I found I liked, a little bit more melodious music than what was often the popular, rock and roll kind of sound.

aa	I agree with that too.	sd	Although now I kind of enjoy hearing the rock and roll, I guess it makes me think I'm young again .

sv	now rock and roll seems tame compared to like the New Age and all that stuff.	bh	Isn't that the truth?

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you don't hear everything all the time,

b	Right.	sd	and I remember my older sister.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she laughed

bf	Crops up every so often.	aa	Right,

sd	K L T Y.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I like to listen to some of that.	aa	Yes,

b	Yeah.	sd	the problem that I found, in this area is that there, there is inconsistency in the quality here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	If you get someone who's very good at selecting, it's okay,

qw	where do you live?	sd	I live in the, Washington, D C area, Maryland.

sd(^q)	I said, they're playing one of their ten songs.	b	Yes.

sv	and they just play them over and over,	aa	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, now my children have sometimes,

sd*	He'd buy all the sound tracts he could get his hands on * typo tracks if he had the money to.	ba	wow.

sd	and he likes to do special music and stuff at church.	b	Right.

sd	He does a good job.	ba	That's nice,

sd^e	we're expecting a baby in July.	ba	Well, wonderful.

sd	I guess we'll start listening,	sv	That'll be a musician.

sd	We'll start listening to children's music .	sv	there's some wonderful Christian, children's tapes. you can get,

sv	there are.	sd	and I know when my children were younger, we found a lot of really nice tapes that they liked.

b	Uh huh.	sd	my youngest is almost sixteen.

b	Uh huh.	sd	there's one that's, a little girl singing Practice Makes Perfect.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, she's playing the piano.

b	Oh.	sd	And so she gets the wrong note every now and then.

sv	that sounds really cute.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I said, then when it's born you can hold it and sing that again	aa	Yeah,

sv	and maybe it'll comfort her, you know, when she's fussy and stuff.	aa	Yeah,

qw	What?	sd	Because I have always played classical music, or classical style,

b	Huh.	sd	Someone else noticed it

ba	How strange.	sd(^q)	and I said, well, I guess that's true.

^2	Babbly.	sd	you know, it was really funny .

sv	Well, we'll have to keep up with that then.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	this same child, really listened to more, ballady or, pleasant sort of songs and even classical, rather than the real hard rock stuff that so many other kids listen to.

b	Huh.	sd	And I never, I didn't want to say too much for fear he would think it was wrong and wouldn't do it anymore .

bf	have something to rebel against .	aa	Right .

sv	variety is good.	b	Yeah.

fc	It was real good talking to you.	fc	Well, it was nice talking to you,

fc	bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	his health was failing	b	Uh huh.

sd	and two, that he not be put into a home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I think that, my position is that, you need to find one that you can really have confidence that they are taking care of the, of their clients	b	Yes.

sd	and, because I've heard about the many abuses, and because he had heard of so many abuses, he just didn't want that.	b	Yeah,

qo	How about you?	sd	Well, my graduate work is in speech pathology,

qy^g	all over thirty percent, isn't it.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's difficult for many families, especially in the case of Alzheimer's and, some of the more degenerative diseases to, say, to have them at home, because then the family becomes completely,

sv	They're captive.	aa	exactly.

sd	We had the Visiting Nurses program	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it was a nominal charge that it started out that the lady would come in I think three times a week and eventually got up to the point where they were coming by every day.	b	Yeah.

sd	Try to get him to talk and be motivated	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then, I think, he became discouraged	b	Right.

sv	and then, at that point I think it's mostly a psychological problem.	b	Oh.

sv	There could be a lot of options.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think it's time that, we decide to do something about it.	b	Yeah.

sd	I suppose at one time the church would fulfill this need.	sv	Possibly before.

sv	the church or synagogue, whatever because typically these were close knit groups at one time,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but in today's large metropolitan areas, or even, even the rural areas now, people are not quite as close as they once were.	aa	Huh uh.

sv	there might be some possibilities there.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Although dealing with geriatrics is something a lot of young people just aren't emotionally prepared to do.	aa	I agree.

qw	what kind of things do you like to do in your spare time?	sd	Well, I have two children,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I do not have a whole lot of spare time right now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I really enjoy,

b	Yeah.	sd	And then I really enjoy sewing,

sd	and we like the water sports too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But like you, unless you have a pool in your backyard, it is kind of hard to get to do that very often.	aa	I, know it.

sd	We are going to have a baby in July.	b^m	Part time.

sd	So part of my big hobby has been trying to put together a nursery and all that kind of stuff, lately.	aa	Right.

sv	it does.	qy	Is this going to be your first?

ny	Uh huh.	b	Oh.

sd	So, I have not done that in years,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I have kind of enjoyed that.	b	Yeah.

sd	It is just hard to find the time to sit there and do it.	aa	Right.

aa	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I guess I kind of consider shopping a hobby .	aa	Yeah.

sd	I just go out just to enjoy it and not really spend money sometimes, just look.	b	Yeah.

sd	we bought some baby clothes, yeah, last weekend at a garage sale.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I am,

b	Uh huh.	sd	On the weekends I drive around, look to see, you know, who is selling what.

b	Oh .	sd	and I got them for two dollars .

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv,o@	it is kind of a hobby, that is time consuming too, really, to find the things that you want sometimes you have to stop * Looks like, including A.61, there are 3 slash units here at a lot of places.	b	Yeah.

sd	I am not going to work after the baby comes.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I guess, hopefully I will have more time for hobbies.	ba	I am glad,

h	I do not know .	sd	Well, at first, when you first have a baby, seems to take every moment of your time. Partly because you are not used to, you know, juggling your time around like that.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I think, my husband is real into sports too.

b	Yeah	sd	But the kids enjoy going because there's usually a lot of other kids for them to play with

bf	your whole family can enjoy those hobbies.	aa	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	We have never done that before,

sv	That will make the summer go by in a hurry.	aa	Yeah.

sv	Keep the kids busy.	aa	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	So, I think that will be a lot of fun.

b	Yeah.	sd	So we are looking forward to that.

qrr	or is that just a chore? .	sd	Well, when I got married, I thought it was going to be fun .

b	Uh huh	sd	But my husband and I both, I think, consider it a chore.

b	Yeah.	sd	our yard has had so many problems.

ba	no.	sd	And, we have had to start all over trying to plant grass.

b	Huh.	qy	Do you and your husband like to work in the yard?

nd	well, we like it once in a while but not as often as we have to do it .	b	Yeah.

sd	I like to put flowers out and, you know, a few little things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But as far as mowing every week, and finding time to get all that stuff done, it gets to be a chore.	b	Yeah.

sv	They kind of take over and turn into work instead of fun.	b	Yeah.

bf	If it does not go quite, quite right.	aa	Yeah.

ba	no.	sd	So, I enjoy, you know, cooking things to take over to her house

ba	that is nice.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think I will enjoy cooking more when I am not working, when I do not get home until five thirty or six, and I have to cook and clean up,	b	Yeah.

sd	But I think I will like it better.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv^r	It sure does.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Well, do you guys go camping or anything like that?

sd	there again, it is just so hard to find time to get away for a whole weekend.	b	Uh huh.

ba	That sounds fun.	aa	Yeah.

sv	I think that would be a good family thing to start doing more often.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They can go fishing.

sd	and, if you can find some place where those little sunfish are right around the shore where they can just pull in a line.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they have so much fun doing that.	b	Yeah.

sd	And they think they are really great fishermen because they are catching so many .	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd(^q)	And I am saying, no, no .

bf	Skip this tournament .	aa	Yeah.

qy	Do you do any other crafts or anything besides your sewing?	ng	Well, not really right now.

sv	It is not too hard.	b	Yeah.

sv	I do not think it is as hard as like knitting or crochet or something like that.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah	sd	It has been so long since I did it that

sd	I started to knit a sweater.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so what should have been the back all of a sudden was on the front.	b	yeah.

sd	and now I can't remember anything about it .	b	Yeah,

b	uh huh.	sd	It was a real pretty rug.

b	Yeah	sd	And then it was just like I forgot all about it.

^2	Forget it.	sd	And every once in a while I will be digging through the closet,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, for a while there latch hook rugs were a real big, hobby.

sd	I remember that.	sv	It seemed like people did them a lot.

b	Yeah.	sd	people do not do that much any more.

sv	They are pretty easy.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, it has been real good talking to you.	fc	Yeah.

fc	And I hope you enjoy your camping trip.	ft	thank you.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	Personal computers.	b	Yes.

qy	So, do you use them?	ny	yes,

qw	What kind?	sd	its an Emerson eighty eighty six, two low density floppy drives, and no hard drive yet.

qy	Mostly for word processing type things?	ny	yeah,

qy	Did you buy a program to handle menus?	sd	it came with a menus program,

ba	yes.	sd	and hopefully sometime this spring we'll be able to get one and get it configured.

br^m	Eighty eighty eight is what you said?	sd	Eighty eighty six.

sv	they're so darned cheap now.	qw	Which,

sd	Computers.	sd	impoverished college student.

ba	no.	sd	This one went on a credit card,

sd	and so I'm into computers all the time.	b^m	E D P.

sd	Electronic Data Processing.	bk	Okay,

sd	and it treats me well.	b	Yes.

qy	what are you studying in college computers?	sd	 Computer engineering.

ba	How nice.	sd	Well, computer engineering technology, which, all I can understand is it's a slightly more hands on version of computer engineering.

sd	How they work is fascinating to me.	aa	yes.

bh	Was it.	ny	Yeah,

bf	Hardware stuff,	aa	Yeah.

qo	What do you think of that fuzzy logic?	sd	I've not had a chance to work with it, although, my, data structures teacher was telling us something about how fuzzy logic works as far as the concept behind it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now how you'd implement that software wise or mechanically I don't know,

sd	I've written a couple of programs for, commercially,	b	Yes.

sd	and it's a fun field.	qy	In the fuzzy logic direction?

sd	but you have to take into account, you know, with any computer program all the type of things people can do to you to make your program crash or things you normally don't consider.	b	Yeah.

bf	pushing keys certain times and, messing up your files and things like that.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	And you're going to be an computer engineer type.	ny	yeah,

b^m	Okay.	qw	Well what do you think about the idea of, kids having to do public service work for a year?

sv	I think they should either do that, or afford some time to the military, or helping elderly people.	aa	Yes,

sv	and I'm not sure that that's not a bad idea	aa	That's true.

sv	or the military for a year or two, wouldn't be bad for,	b	Yeah.

qo	How about yourself?	aa	I agree with you.

sv	I really think that both the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts is two excellent organizations.	aa	They are

sv	You know, kids seem like when they get ten or twelve years old they fall out of that,	aa	Yeah,

sv	There are very few Scouts go on, and become Eagle Scouts.	aa	no.

sd	and I don't know what the high rank is for the gals	sd	senior.

bk	okay.	sv	once they get into junior high it just, not done anymore .

sv	and then when they young adults, there's even less interest there.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They're more for, I g ,	^2	Me .

aa	yeah.	sd	Grab,

sv	you're absolutely right .	b	Yeah

sv	of course, there's, you know, third world countries that can use all kind of help .	b	Yeah,

sv	But I think, we ought to start right here at home.	b	Yeah,

aa	No,	sv	But, since there is much that needs to be done here.

sv	and then perhaps even a six month tour overseas that gives them much broader outlook.	b	Uh huh.

sv	we, I guess we both agree that it's a good thing, that they should do sometime.	b	Yeah.

fc	and, enjoy the day.	fc	You, too.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	we're going to talk about the public school system, What's wrong with it, or if anything is wrong with it and what we can do about it, what should be done about it.	b	Okay.

b	Yeah.	sv	Evidently, that's a big problem.

sv	I always thought that teachers never got paid nearly enough, I mean, to be doing what they're doing,	b	Right.

sd	it just, you know, all the problems.	b	Lord, I mean, yeah,

sv	I'm sure, because they've got to grade papers and get class stuff ready.	b	right.

sv	you know, and they're being paid, probably half what most people being paid.	aa	Exactly,

sd	And we're paying basketball people, you know, millions of dollars a year for what, you know.	aa	That's right,

b	Yeah.	sv	what gets me is I can't believe that or, our state legislature can't come up with, some kind of workable means to have funds for the school.

qy	Now do you have little kids, or what?	nn	No,

sd	my wife and I have a three year old, almost four and a two year old.	b	Okay.

sd	So we're looking at the older one going to school next year. not, well not this coming fall but the year after that.	b	Okay,

sd	he's going to be going to kindergarten,	b	Right.

sd	We're going to be teaching him what we can at home, of course, because, I guess we don't trust the school system, which is very sad,	b	Right.

sv	but. But if it doesn't start at home, it's not going to go anywhere. You know,	aa	Exactly.

sv	and we're going to try to teach him good values, because, you know, when, when they get to upper level school and they start teaching them, well hey, if you can play football or basketball that's what's important. Not if you can read or write, or un , understand some science. You know,	aa	Exactly.

sv	that's, that's bogus.	aa	Right,

sd	And Dallas, school district just recently got an advised status because of their low quality schooling.	b	Right.

sd	I couldn't believe that.	b^r	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	but, I can definitely, see on down the road, you know, where we do have kids and are getting to that age, that's going to be a definite concern.

sv	That's the only way they're going to fund it, because if they start raising taxes for property, people are going to throw a fit.	b	yeah,

b	yeah.	sv	and I don't think any politician's going to do that,

sv	if it works at colleges it will work down below.	b	Right.

sv	But, it will be hard for those that people, that have in school because they have to pay out even more.	aa	Exactly.

fe	I mean, good grief what's .	b	Yeah

sd	You never heard about that.	b	Well yeah,

fe	like good grief.	b	right.

sd	I mean I'm afraid for him to go.	aa	Exactly,

sv	But there again , you can't hold them back.	sv	and you want to encourage them, you know, to be active and everything in school,

sd	well I graduated high school in nineteen seventy nine,	b	Okay.

qy^d	That was what, twelve years ago, I guess.	na	Right.

qh	And what's it going to be like in another twelve years when my, oldest son is in high school.	aa	That's right,

sd	I'm afraid to even think about it.	aa	yeah, that is a scary thought,

sv	you got to be your child's best friend, I guess, even when they're a teenager and they, you know are kind of standoffish,	b	Right.

sv	still you got to be their best friend because when they've got problems, who they going to go to, their friends that are dealing drugs, or your parents. You know,	aa	Exactly.

sv	and if they go to their friends dealing drugs, they're going to be in even worse shape.	aa	That's right.

sv	but, it just is amazing, you know,	b	Right.

sv	need to teach them good values.	aa	That's true,

sv	And the A C L U is going to get after them and have a lawsuit. Which is going to take twenty years to resolve, you know.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	that's where they get the deep rooted values

sv	That's all you can do.	sv	Then you just have to hope and pray that everything, works out okay,

fc	Well I got to be going,	fc	Okay,

fc	Nice talking to you today.	fc	You to.

sd	I don't care, for acid rock,	aa	Me, too.

sd	but, I grew up with country and western,	b	Yeah,

sd	I even like classical music.	b	Yeah,

sd	I grew up with Hank Snow, and Lefty Frizzell and Hank Williams and all of those old country and western songs.	b	really.

qy	did you happen to see last night the special on Channel Two with James Galway?	ng	We don't get Channel Two.

b	Oh.	sd	I wish we got that what,

sv	That is fabulous.	qy	Was it?

sd^e	when he played DANNY BOY it just almost brought, tears to your eyes, because he can make that flute sing.	bh	really?

sv^e	and, it was tremendous.	sd	actually, I did,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, so, I, I appreciate his too, his mus ,

b	Yeah.	qy^g	he, he's from Ireland isn't he?

sd^e	and it was, mostly all Irish tunes,	b	yeah.

sd	they had a band with him that, had a harpist and another flute and then a guy that played the bagpipes plus the, tin whistle, and a couple of violins and, drum,	b	Yeah.

sv	it was just fabulous.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	so, I've played flute, flute and piano,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	I'm getting now to the age where I don't like the new stuff that's coming an , much of the new stuff that's coming out,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	my husband says I'm getting old .

b^r	Yeah	bh	Do you?

sd	I love to just lay back on the couch and turn a good instrumental on and just close my eyes and listen.	b	Yeah,

sd	I've always wanted too,	b	Yeah.

sd	I've always wished my parents had forced me to learn the piano or something,	b	Yeah

sd	but I'd just love to be able to go to a party or something and sit down at the piano and bang out music	sd	I could never do that .

sd	I guess the closest I've ever come to participating in music is singing in the choir.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I haven't done that in a long time.

b^r	Yeah.	^h	So, let's see

sd	an I don't care for rap music either.	sv	that's not music ,

aa	no.	sv	that is not,

sd	If I can't understand the words I don't want to listen to it.	sv	Well, it's, it's not, it's not music,

b	Yeah.	sv	it doesn't, it doesn't give you relaxation,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	you can't dance to it,

sd	But, and I love, I like orchestra music too. Like the, Boston Pops or, or anything.	b	Yeah.

ny	Uh huh.	bh	Have you?

sv^e	they're good.	bh	Are they?

sd	And, we went and saw, L , LES MISERABLES	bh	really?

sv	the music in that was fantastic.	sd	I've heard, I've heard that that is a really,

b	Yeah.	qy^d	I heard that was hard to get tickets to.

sv	and, it was well worth the price.	b	Yeah.

ny	Yeah,	ba	I bet it was,

b^r	Yeah.	ba^r	I really bet it was .

sd	just ever so often you know, a real good one like that one	b	Yeah.

sv	that had good music in it.	bh	Was it?

sd	I got it right on the tip of my tongue and can't say it, Helen something.	sd	I know who you're talking about,

sd	real long legs, and dark hair.	sd	she's got black hair,

sd	I can't think of it.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sd	the last country music,

b	Yeah.	sd	and they like, they like the Oak Ridge Boys and the Statler Brothers,

b^r	yeah.	sd	and, well, my, my, my parents,

^2	The Blackwoods.	aa	yeah,

b	Yeah.	b^m	and, yeah,

^2	Alabama.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah	sv	I get kind, of tire , get tired of every other song being Alabama on the, radio.

^2	either Alabama or Hank Williams, Junior.	sd	I've never cared for Hank, Williams, Junior.

sd	and I never have figured out how he won, entertainer of the year for about, three or four years in a row.	b	Oh .

b	Yeah.	sd	I just never have.

sd	I guess probably my favorite all time country and western song or singer is, probably Eddy Arnold.	bh	is it?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Okay,

sd	But, I've got about a hundred and, or had a, some, I sold some of them, I had about a hundred and fifty old seventy eight R P M records of country and western, songs,	b	Yeah.

qy^d	Smiley Burnette, I don't know if you were old enough to remember him.	sd	I've heard the name.

sv	I think his name in the movie was Froggy	sd	I've never seen a Gene Autry movie,

sd	had a real raspy voice,	o	No,

sd	some of those old ones, of course, Bob Wills, Miss Texas Playboys Ernest Tubbs and Red Foley an,	b	Yeah.

sd	I took them up here to Collectors Records and was able to get a little money for them	b	Yeah.

sd	but, my mother and dad use to, own a restaurant,	b	yeah.

sd	and they had a, nickelodeon, of course, in the restaurant,	b^r	Yeah.

sd	and when they would come and change the records the guy would give her the old records	ba	that's neat.

sd	so, that's where I got my,	sv	that would be great if they weren't too worn out, at the time.

sv	Of course, there's not a whole lot of market for seventy eight R P M records.	qy	Is there not?

sv	Well, the problem is most of the record players now will not play them because, you have to have that, particular kind of needle	aa	Well, that's true.

sd	and, they, just won't play on a modern day, phonograph.	ba	Well, that's a shame

b	Yeah.	sv	you'd, think there'd be a market for,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	I'm sure you could find old players for them

b^r	Yeah.	b	Oh.

sv	Of course, they, you know, just don't have the quality of records nowadays either because, you get that scratchy sound.	aa	No.

ny^r	yeah.	sv	You could kill somebody with them .

sd	warped real easy.	sv	And the ones you buy,

b	Yeah.	sv	and they're not meant to last, at all,

b	Yeah.	sv	neither are tapes.

b	Yeah.	sd	and machines will eat them,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	and so, the best bet, anymo , these days are compact disk,

sd	back then when I was a kid, there wasn't that much T V,	b	no.

sd	so that's all you had to listen to was the, radio,	^2	Radio.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think it was better back then to,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	and the radio is, you know, more exciting, really, than television,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	it just didn't vegetate your mind like television does .

sd	I remember mother and dad always turned on the Grand Ole Opera.	b	yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	qy	Was it on the radio every week?

ny	Yeah.	qw	what day, what day was that on,

qw	could you tell me what you think contributes most to, air pollution?	^h	Well, it's hard to say.

sv	I think probably the greatest cause is, vehicles, especially around cities.	b	Uh huh.

qy	do you live right in the city itself?	nn	No,

qy	so ca , Can you notice,	qo	How about you?

sd	I live in a rural area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I live in Rhode Island.	b	I see.

sd	and Attleboro sits in just over the line, where T I's plant is,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they're swinging wider so that now they are coming over our homes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, other than that, you know, we don't have unless we're catching it from the midwest, the emissions. You know from the power plants.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I'm not sure about the rest of the country.	b	Yeah,

bh	well, is that right? .	ny	Yeah,

ba	surprise, surprise.	b	Yeah,

sv	there must be, some of the, larger plants up around one hundred twenty eight.	b	Uh huh.

sd	during the night seems like they'd blow off their stacks from, the warehouses, for powerhouses,	b	Right.

sd	and, they do that at night too, because, employees been complaining that the cars have been pitted, and, you know, spots all over them.	b	Right.

sv	they could do something about, about that, I guess.	aa	Yeah.

qo	How are your lakes,	sd	they've been getting cleaner.

qy^d	They have?	na	Sure.

sd	that's what I was,	sd	I mean the stuff I've read recently in Technology Review basically indicates that acid rain may be a little bit, overstated. That a lot of the die off they've seen in forests may not really be due to acid rain at all.

sd	upstate New York somewhere, over huge areas,	sd	I haven't read that.

sd	and some of the fish were supposedly making a comeback.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I can't remember where.	b	Yeah,

sv	So, that's interesting because New Hampshire, and parts of Vermont, they showed pictures of extensive tree damage that they attributed to acid rain.	b	Uh huh.

qy	you kind of think it's something else then?	nd	Well, that's what the environmentalists were claiming in this article.

"	they just said they thought it was,	na	They didn't say what,

bf	natural disease,	aa	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	h	But, I don't know,

sv	I still think that's, one of our major causes of pollutants.	b	Uh huh.

sv	how we go about that, it's a little bit difficult.	sv	I think it's up to individuals too, to ask automakers for, for less pollutant vehicles.

sv	yo , ne , I think you need a vehicle something like, Ralph Nader, Nader's Raiders, or, or, A A R P, which has a lot of members. if you can get those types of groups.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah,	sv	and the new cars is, hardly anything.

qw	when was the last time you saw a truck that didn't belch, smoke, or,	b	Yeah,

sd	fuel is one of their biggest costs.	b	Right.

sd^m	diesel engines.	sv	I mean, they do generate a lot of soot

sv	This country seems to be a little behind on that.	b	Yeah.

sv	but only because we got used to, single person, single car, driving.	b	Uh huh.

sv	A lot of people don't even like to carpool.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	That'll help, air pollution,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	The, United States and Canada is, is, going into, some types of agreements to limit, what's being given out by power plants,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	I guess Canada's quite concerned that we're sending a lot of our stuff up there,	b	Yeah,

sv	So that's helping.	qw	Well, what do you think about like a device, a meter right on a tail pipe

ad	don't say that too loud though because, every city and town will have a meter on your tail pipe generating revenue,	sd	Well, it just means if you don't pollute, right, or you pollute very little you don't have to pay any tax

qy	Is that your idea?	ny	Yeah,

sd	you could, you could, it could be installed like a catalytic converter.	b	Right.

sv	I mean I guess you could take those off too	sv	but mufflers would be a little more obvious if you took that off.

sd	well not unless it was built into every muffler.	b	Right.

sv	You should, pursue that I think, or patent it, you know.	aa	Yeah,

sv	If you could come up with a device that's the thing.	b	Right.

sd	But that's a thought.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't know if you approached the automobile industry if they would be too keen on installing something like that.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	but you know a proposal to, I guess the proper authorities,	b	Uh huh.

sv	well you might, generate some	b	Yeah,

sv	Other than that I'm not sure what individuals can do other than like I said get involved through a group or an organization.	b	Uh huh.

fp	How are you?	fp	I'm doing fine.

sd	Massachusetts.	bk	Okay.

sd	This is quite a long distance.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Do you have any pets?	nn	No.

qy	You get tired of them?	sd	Well, I live in an apartment building

b	Yeah.	sd	I'd love to have a dog, you know.

br	I beg your pardon?	qw	What is she?

sd	a toy poodle	b	Ah.

sd	This is a little bigger than a teacup.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, after you had an animal for a couple of weeks, you become you become attached to it.	aa	for sure.

sd	But she's usually pretty good.	b	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, it, it's it's really made such a difference for her.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I'm unable to, really take care of a pet

ad	Well, you might want to get yourself, an animal that doesn't require much attention. Like a cat.	b	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	it's just a great cat,

sv	 they're, they're affectionate	sv	Well, you don't own cats.

sv	I can't seem to communicate with a cat like I can with my dog.	b	Yeah.

sv	I don't know that a cat would do that, .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I could just walk in the door

b^r	yeah.	sv	It was, uncanny .

sd	I think, in a way we're able to read each other pretty well because, she knows when I'm upset and I know when she's not feeling good too .	b	Yeah.

sd	When when she was younger, she used to do that to get even with me,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, but, I do .	b	Sure .

sd	Like if I put her in a room all by herself and close the door and leave her there for a few hours, because I was going out. She would, break something or rip up the carpet or do something just to, to let me know that she was unhappy with what I did .	bh	Really?

ny	Yeah.	sd	well, I had that cat that I mentioned, Alfie .

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, the next morning, when my roommate got up and, did not feed it right away, it decided that it was going to protest.

sv	Animals have a way of talking .	sd	Alfie did.

sd	It cost me over five hundred dollars.	ba,fe	Ouch.

sd	It's been about two years now.	ba	Well, that's great,

sd	I probably would have had second thoughts.	aa	Yeah.

sd	So that that was kind of a surprise	b	Really.

sd	and then the cat, died.	ba	My goodness.

sd	So another five or six weeks I'll be bringing the little kitten over to my folks.	sv	Well, that, that, that will make their day.

sv	I think they enjoy that.	bf	Only work initially.

aa	Yeah.	sv	For cats anyway, you know.

fc	Well, the same here.	fc	And you take care.

fc	Bye now.	fc	Maybe we'll talk again sometimes .

qw	What is that sound?	sd	That's my buzzer at the door .

fc	I'll let you go.	fc	Okay.

fc	Right .	fc	Thank you .

sd	but, I don't know if its their proposal or one that's being seriously kicked around.	b	No,

sv	I've always felt for a long time that I think that all young kids ought to do a stint, primarily in the military.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know about the young women,

sd	I mean, everybody does.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, I went in the service when I was eighteen, And, stayed in for ten years.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	did a lot of growing up.	ba	I bet.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	He came from a poor immigrant family,

^2	Do it himself.	sd	and he did.

sd	You know, I had wanderlust, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	So I started to work on my education.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	Course my job was such that I couldn't do it as much as I wanted	b	Uh huh.

sd	and still I ended up going two semesters when I got out just to get my degree.	ba	That's pretty good.

sd	But, I've been in school ever since .	ba	That's good.

sv	I guess.	b	Yeah,

sd	I mean if you don't like,	sd	I mean, working in the national parks, working, clean up the roadsides

ba	Exactly.	sv	I mean, I've always felt that people on welfare should be required to spend * why no slash? not all the time because that takes away from their opportunity to look for a job, but at least some of their time to go out and clean up the roads. You know,

sv	and if they're able bodied people, I don't see any problem at all with having them go out there and, if nothing else, get a group of them together and take them around to old folks places and let them cut the yards, paint the houses.	b	Yeah.

sv	get something out of that money.	sv	Country would benefit,

sd	and his sole job was just tracking down people who were getting benefits and able bodied	bh	That right.

sd	and, back in those days they also use to give you, booklets good for, clothing and gas, and things like this .	b	Yeah.

sd	They get all this stuff together and sit down and have poker games you know,	b^r	Yeah.

sd	and I jus , I have a hard time dealing with that.	sd	What I hear one time, I think it was on Paul Harvey's, radio segment, that he said that if the money that goes into welfare each year was to be given directly to the people without all the middle people in the government bureaucracy, each person would receive like forty five thousand dollars.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, I was astounded.

sd	you, you think about, you think about the layer of bureaucracy between the money and the recipient,	b	Yeah,

sv	and there's easily probably six or seven times that amount being spent on the bureaucracy.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and, quite honestly I just got so fed up with it I just couldn't stand it any more.	bh	Is that right,

sd^e	I mean, this is the kind of thing you look at.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well just ridiculous.	b	Yeah.

sv	This is ridiculous.	sv	It's sad.

sv	I mean, these these people out here getting that money are big voting blocks.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I would limit it strictly to something like tuition assistance.	b	Yeah.

sd	Give an incentive.	^2	Educational or vocational training or something.

sd	Something that's going to help them along the way.	sv	And they'll help the country eventually, too, because rather than having a bunch of uneducated people we can have educated people,

ad	I mean I mean, look at the statistics,	sv	and that's only going to help.

sd	One in five Americans can't read	b	Yeah.

sd	and we've got the lowest rates of the civilized countries in science and math.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	We're becoming a service country.	bf	As opposed to what we were twenty years ago.

sv	and they did it better than we do.	b	Yeah

sd	Simple as that.	sv	because they have the ambition, I guess.

sd	simple as that.	b	Yeah,

sv	it's terrible for us.	sv	I think that if, young people had service to the country might give them more ambition. Because they learn that serving other people is a good thing.

sv	and it can be good for them, too.	b	Yeah,

aa^r	I know.	ad	Give me the money

sv	Well, you know, you know why they do it is so they can get them out of the house.	b	Yeah.

sv	Parents aren't parents any more.	aa	No.

sd	One of the other subjects is do you think the public school systems are in trouble?	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, as a substitute teacher for a year, I can say yes.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And when come time to get out of school, I thought, Boy, I'd like to teach.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, I don't want to live in a little one bedroom apartment the rest of my life.

aa	Exactly.	sv	I mean, that's a sad thing to think,

sv	but you have to look out for yourself you know,	aa	Yeah,

sv	and when we pay garbage men more than we pay teachers,	sv	That's wrong.

fe	gosh,	sd	I'm not saying that garbage men should be paid less,

sd	I mean, I have a great deal of admiration for these people who can go out there and do that.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, I mean, there's a sense of priorities here, too.	b^r	Yeah.

qh	what's more important, picking up the garbage or educating our kids.	b	Yeah

aa	sure.	sd	But, you know, when it gets right down to it,

ad	I mean, on the other hand, I mean, you take a garbage man in New York City starts out at twenty six thousand dollars.	ba	That's pretty good.

sd	Well I bet you there's a whole bunch of homeless people up there who would take that job for thirteen thousand dollars a year.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, my other pet peeve is unions.	aa	Yeah,

sv	There was a time when unions were needed.	^2	And they served a good function.

sv	and they're only there to perpetuate their own power structure.	sd	I remember, the company my dad worked for, the people there went on strike against the management.

b	Yeah.	sd	and they all lost their jobs.

sv	and and that's really what happened to the steel industry in this country.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, well, that took care of that industry	aa	That's right.

sv	Detroit worked awfully hard on stopping car manufacturing in this country.	sv	And they're trying to do that now with the imports.

sv	and I don't think we ever will.	sv	It'll be a tough road, though.

sv	and we've got to go into partnership with the Japanese to build cars.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know . And they only did it because I guess they were embarrassed that they're so good at it .	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't care what kind it is.	sv	It teaches them pride in their country.

sv	and pride in themselves, too.	aa	That's right.

sv	they could, I mean, you could organize something just within your community. same old thing.	b	Yeah,

aa	Uh huh.	sv	And that's a great idea.

sv	and theft and probably murder are the two top ones that we have.	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about you?	h	well, I don't actually live in the city,

sv	probably right, if you look at it from that stand point.	b	Uh huh.

qy	is there anything, that you particularly are concerned with in your particular area as far as security and that sort of thing?	sd	where I live now it's not so bad.

qr	Do you live in a real small town or out in the country?	sd	I live out in the country,

qw	How far out from the city, I mean, do you,	sd	I'm about fifteen miles out.

sd	I live in a little suburb, which I guess from Dallas is twelve miles or so	b	Uh huh.

sv	Our major crimes in our immediate town, is probably house robberies and very few instances of, you know, alcohol, drugs, reported.	b	Uh huh.

sv	However, I'm sure they're there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, right now our neighborhood is running about, eighty percent of the homeowners have been robbed, sometime during their, existence in that neighborhood.	ba	Wow.

sd	And since that time everybody's got some sort of burglar system or, you know, burglar alarms and including the outer perimeter type, devices, sensors and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so it still, remains city wide, pretty high.	qy	are there any theories on why this is happening?

sv	I would say the majority of it's happening during the day, between probably ten in the morning and three in the afternoon.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and both people are working.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So they're happening during the hours they're gone from work.	b	Uh huh.

sv	they'll stock your house and, look at your pattern and then go from there.	qy^d	So they're professionals?

sd	you get a few of them that are a little bit sloppier, just taking, you know, just junk items that they can just get, you know, ten to twenty bucks for real quick.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the, you know, Mercedes, Volvos, things that they can get, you know, big dollars for and the jewelry are the major targets,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	Very few, you know, penny ante stuff.	qw	Well, what do you think can be done to reduce that sort of crime?

sd	and there's only eight officers that patrol for thirty, for that amount of people which is not very many.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so they're giving the early release,	b	Right.

sd	I think what they need to do is stop building more jails and start giving stiffer sentences,	qy	So you think that would be a deterrent?

na	That would certainly be a deterrent.	b	Uh huh.

ad	You know, if they're overcrowded, just keep cramming them in there till they just suffocate.	qw	Well, what about an innocent person who happens to have been found guilty?

sv	Course, I know you can't be a hundred percent foolproof.	b	Right.

aa	I'd rather see it a little bit harder and have a little bit more evidence, to convict somebody	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then those convicted, especially of, you know, murder and, you know, major crimes, to reach the life sentences and, you know, death penalties and follow through with that.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	especially, you know, in the case of murder	b	Right.

sd	I know in my case, my wife and daughter were kidnapped, during a house robbery back in eighty five	ba	wow.

sd	we, we went through the court system and all that sort of thing	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, two counts of kidnapping, you know, the forty five to the head, you know, just the mental anguish and the whole nine yards you know, the guy only got five years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, you know, he was out within two months because of the parole system.	qy	did you sue him under the civil system?

br	Do what now?	qy^r	Did you sue him under the civil system?

sd^e	I'm not real familiar with that.	sv	Well, you could probably sue him for mental anguish or something, right, and try to get money from him

^q	there's nothing that he has that you could go after.	b	Yeah.

aa	Yeah.	sd	But they give the guy a job in prison and make him pay his damn debt.

sd	you or the insurance companies never see any of that money.	b	Yeah,

sd	they, been in jail before ,	b	Uh huh,

sv	they've been released, you know, several times, which is another, deal I hate to see.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	But, you know, basically the guy commits, you know three major crimes and, and car theft on top of it, destroys my car,	b	Yeah,

sd	and, you know, the guy gets out in two months	ba	That's awful .

sd	Fact, he's back in jail now.	sv	Gives you sympathy for the vigilantes.

qh	what deterrent does he really have?	b	Yeah.

sv	I think in our particular neighborhood, vigilantism is becoming a real possibility.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we've had a couple instances where break ins where the people have actually, you know, shot the people	ba	my God.

sd	then other people will wait up, you know, and wait for somebody to do something else, try to take it in their own hands.	b	Right.

sd	Course it doesn't always work out in their favor.	b^r	Right.

sd(^q)	But, nevertheless, I think people are just getting fed up and saying, you know, you can't arrest all of us,	b	Uh huh.

^q	you can, you know, you can get some of us,	b	Right.

^q	you can't get all of us.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we're beginning to see more and more of that.	sv	And that's a deterrent, too. If you think the home owner might be armed, right, and awake

b	Yeah.	sd	here you break in,

sd	we have had a few cases where the guy has broken in, you know, during the middle of the night and gotten himself shot to death.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it helps for a while	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	I would say probably eighty percent of them that are caught, they're from places like up in Oklahoma, and Louisiana, Arkansas, you know, across the border.	ba	Wow,

sd	So, you know, people who don't readily read the newspapers in our town or whatever	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's not many from the local communities.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	and I just, I think that the court systems need to be more in, stiffer in their penalties,	b	Yeah.

sv	and, and, giving the, police, agencies a little bit more jurisdiction over what they do when they catch these people.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	And I think one of the big things that you can do to increase deterrence is, if someone is found guilty of a, felony level offense, they lose their citizenship.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and just a lot of things that we're trying to worry about, you know, protecting these people from, we just don't protect them.

sd	I know like in my wife's case, they made her feel like the criminal.	aa	I know,

qy	have you painted something lately?	ny	Yes,

b	Yeah.	sd	And then since then we have painted the bedroom.

qy^d	another bedroom.	ny	Yeah,

ny^r	Yeah.	bk^m	Yeah,

b	yeah	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I painted the outside of my house and one bathroom.	b	Yeah.

sd	But I have that problem with the ceiling, you know, the blown, ceiling. You know where you get around the edge.	b	yeah.

qw	Well, how do you get the edge though?	br^m	How do you get the edge?

aa	the straight edge?	sd	You just have to be real careful.

b	I see.	sd	We use, a two inch brush on a slant

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and that mostly does it even though you still make mistakes.

qy	Well are you going to paint the outside of your house too?	ny	Well, yeah.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

ba	nice.	sd	There are three houses on this street the same color of yellow out of six houses.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I am thinking I am going to change it to, something, you know,

b	Uh huh.	o@	I think I am going to put something like a brown on it, on the outside. And maybe, a little deeper brown in the entry way or something so it will stand out a little. What color did you paint,

^2	or two tone. You know.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	qw	What color did you paint your house?

sd	White.	bf	On the out,

sd	and we can't paint the chimney .	ad	Well, you have got to get one of those ladders.

sd	We are just not willing to get up that high.	b	yeah.

sd	but and the only thing I would consider a professional, maybe doing that,	b	Yeah.

sd	other than doing our own work I prefer it to a professional.	sd	Well, our house in New Mexico, it was stucco,

b	Yeah.	sd	And we did basically seventy five percent of the house

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I hired this man to come in and do it. A young kid.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And he came with his own raf ,

qy^d	The blowers?	nn	No,

sd	I know what you are talking about.	b	Yeah.

sd	That's it .	sd	He came and did it that way

b	Yeah.	sd	and if he fell, he was dead

sv	So that was worth it getting a professional for that.	aa	Yeah.

sd	but other than that, it was pretty easy doing it ourself and caulking it and everything ourself.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It wasn't too bad.	qw	How much did it cost you for the paint for the outside?

sd	Shoot, maybe a hundred and fifty.	bk	Yeah.

sd	But then that way you know you are assured you did a good job than you are, you know, if you hire someone to do it.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and yet he bought like seventeen gallons.

ba	My word.	sd	And, anyway, when he checked out and he was using his charge card too. They only charged him for one gallon of paint. Like thirteen bucks or something.

ba	my word.	sd	And he had, the, he had already carried a ladder outside and told her that

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she wrung all that stuff up and made a mistake on the price of the paint

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	so she had to start all over again

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and when he got outside, he noticed his receipt was like thirteen ninety nine or something.

ba	my word.	sd	And he saw .

bf	So that was really worth it. Painting his own house.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Well, he really saved in that way.	b	Yeah.

sd	I want to do it about the same color. And just be a little,	sv	Rollers are so messy.

qy	are you on a regular exercise program right now?	ny	Yes,

sd	well, I'm kind of off and on.	b^m	Off and on

sd	Right now I'm kind of off.	sd	I'd say more on than off .

qw	what type of exercise do you do?	sd	I do walking on the treadmill,

qy^d	I guess you don't enjoy that very much.	ng	not really.

qy	Do you find that, to be boring?	ny	Yeah,

sd	Well, I'm trying to get back in shape for softball this spring.	b	yeah.

qy^d	I don't know if you've seen those advertised on T V.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	so it's collecting dust right now.	b	Yeah,

sd	I used to jog somewhat.	sd	I use to have one,

sd	when I go visit them, I get on that thing every now and then.	b	Yeah,

sd	had to get out to do something.	b	Yeah,

sd	so thought I, better get outside and do something and not waist the day.	b	Oh.

sd	and so I really don't ever keep a program up consistently.	qy	Have you ever had any injuries from jogging?

sd	I usually only go about a mile or two.	sd	I guess it worries me about jogging that I hear that it's very hard on your body and that, you know, you can end up getting hurt, worse.

sv	it's tough on the joints if you jog on concrete, or on asphalt.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Suppose to be much better if you find grass, or dirt to jog on.	b	Yeah,

sv	that's, very important.	b	Yeah.

sd	my don't get very much use .	sv	Well, I guess my breakdown they say about every six months.

sd	But, that gets old too in a very short order,	b	Yeah.

sd	I really need to get on a regular type of program and use that thing on a consistent basis.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	b	well.

sd	Maybe if I can get interested in playing softball again this string I can, start some type of, regular program.	b	Yeah,

sd	I've always found that, when you write things down and set goals it's a lot easier to keep something going.	b	Uh huh.

sd	an, one of those involved a six weeks session on a universal machine, lifting weights and, working out like that.	b	Oh.

sd	we kept charts of our progress, and, consistently increased the empty of resistance so you could see how much you improved over the weeks.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I found that to be, very helpful.	qy	Are you going to do that?

sv	but, it's a thought.	sv	Well, that sounds like something good to do then.

sv	Sounds like something I should do.	b	Yeah,

qw	How often do you, go out each week on your walking?	sd	Well, I do,

qw	about how far do you go walking?	^h	Well, I'm trying to get my tolerance now

bk	Okay.	sd	but I'm trying to workup to three miles.

sv	Well they say that walking is just as good if not better then jogging.	b	Yeah,

b	Sure.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, if you keep up with a consistent pace just to, keep the heart rating going,	sd	My walkman broke,

b	Yeah.	sd	so I'm upset ,

sv	But it's a lot less stressful on the joints then jogging is.	aa	Yeah,

qrr	or do you watch, on T V?	nn	No,

bk	Okay.	sd	I have a cassette.

qw	Which, shows do you watch on T V?	sd	I use tapes.

bf	like a Cathy Smith workout,	sd	or Richard Simmons,

bk	Okay .	bf	Sweating to the oldies .

sd	I get cable on T V,	b	Uh huh.

qw	and, what is the other one called.	sd	There was one guy I use to watch on E S P N,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I use to watch one on the air,

sd	BODIES IN MOTION that's the name of the one I was thinking of. With Gill.	b	yeah.

sd	They're always in Hawaii some place. on the beach.	b	Yeah,

o@	* why utt? this is notes about transcription they're on every day.	bh	Do they.

sd^e	every morning.	sd	I'll have to tune in.

sd	I can't remember offhand what time.	sd	I'll have to check it, check, check, check it back up,

b	Yeah	sv	but the thing is everybody always looks so good on that show, at least on .

b	Yeah,	sv	Not everybody has a picture perfect body.

sv	well, I found that they have just a much better program than the other shows that are on T V.	sd	I haven't watch any other ones on T V. Just on some of the tapes.

o@	* again why utt? I actually taped a few session that they had on there	b	Okay,

sd	but, I haven't done so much as, watch the tape that I made.	sv	Now, that's a thought.

fc	well, I sure enjoyed, to you about exercise and fitness.	fc	Nice talking to you too.

fc	So, all right.	fc	Talk to you later.

fc	Good night.	fc	Bye.

qo	how do you feel about it?	sv	Well, I think, down here in Texas they don't have a waiting period on handguns.

b	Uh huh.	sd	An , you know, I do like to have my guns.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I like to have them handy.

sd	You have to get a permit from the police station in your local area to do that.	sd	I've never heard of anything like that.

b	Yeah.	sv	That would be nice.

sv	But if someone's really determined to pick up a firearm you can pick it up any place.	b	Yeah

sv	And you can get them really cheap.	aa	I know

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, we bought it there.

qw	How long was the waiting period out there?	sd	About nine days.

sv	That wasn't too bad.	aa	No.

sv	In other words, you know, you don't have a need to go buy a gun to go shoot it the next day.	sv	somebody wants to do that,

sd	They both do the same kind of job.	sv	A shotgun hurts worse than a pistol does.

sv	I think you could recover from a pistol but not from a shotgun .	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	you have a little, thing bottom of th , on top of the barrel where you turn it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you can make it either tight or as loose as loose can get.

b	Oh.	sd	And the spread changes.

sd	The further away I get, the, wider the shot gets from the target.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's got a hell of a kick to it.	b	Yeah.

qr	Do you belong to a gun club or you?	sd	He belonged to one awhile back.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, we can't even find a place to shoot. Just for target practice.

ba	No kidding.	sd	I'd love to get used to that shotgun.

sd	Plus you have to pay for the ammunition in any tournaments that you would join in.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, you know, they used speed and accuracy and all that.

sv	In fact, I'd like to see somehow they tie the legislation into not only when you buy a weapon you have to, show that you've gone to school or gone to some class to know how to handle that weapon.	ba	That's a good,

sd	And you give him a license because he waited nine days.	b	Yeah.

sv	he could, mishandle a weapon. Leave it at home and let a child get at it.	sd	well we was living on a navy base down in Memphis

sd	he could of hit something else .	sd	Well, he went tumbling down the steps along with, shooting his foot almost off.

ba	Wow.	sd	I can't remember what the term was going around.

qrr	or do you believe that you ought to be able to sell your system, because you own it?	h	that's a hard one because we did that.

qy	isn't there a way to deregister yourself after you register a gun?	no	I have no idea.

qy	Is it registered?	ny	Yeah.

sd	and, I don't know why I never registered it	sv	I don't think you have to register a shotgun .

sv	I think it's voluntary .	sd	Well, see, my husband has a thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	my kid is jumping on me.

sd	And once they have your number, they have your identification.	b	Yeah.

sv	And if you try to do anything, like, not identify yourself to the government, they know who you are.	aa	Yeah.

aa	And , that's true .	sv	bu , you know, they know so, how much money you make a week to, probably your,

bf	you were talking about, what the Federal government knows about people.	aa	Yeah.

aa	They probably do.	ar	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, we're wanting to get a couple of more that no one knows about.

qy	Do you find it difficult picking up, guns that are not registered?	nn	No.

sd	Just you know, put up the money.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	a ho , it's a, it's a bargain thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	It comes out every Tuesday.

qy^d	And there's no waiting period on that.	nn	No.

bf	To sell the refrigerator?	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know. And I'm sure it'd be even less for somebody with a good gun.

b	Yeah.	sd	we could look at our paychecks and see how much control they have.

sv	so I can't complain too much.	b	Yeah,

sd	I, weight train, three days on and one day off.	bk	Uh huh.

qo	What about yourself?	sv	That's pretty impressive.

bk	Uh huh.	sd	I guess a play softball one night a week.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

qr	what do you ride, like, a bunch of hills or pretty flat?	sd	it, it varies.

qw	How long does that take you to get to work?	sd	about forty five, fifty minutes.

qw	how does that work out with, storing your bike and showering and all that?	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, it's enough of a pain, that I did it consistently one year,

b	Right.	sd	It was a big hunk of the day .

qy	Do you ride a lot of rallies or a lot of those around there?	ng	Not so much.

b	Uh huh.	qo	How about you,

sd	and I did an internship at the Institute for Aerobics Research in Dallas, the Cooper Clinic,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I was a solid weight trainer,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, once I got into this, internship, I learned all the physiological advan , advantages to it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I usually, you know, fifteen or twenty.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, I'm looking at, doing a lot more of it because, you know, my wife is really into it,	b	I see.

sd	but, you know, she wanted to stay with me .	b	Uh huh.

aa	it really is.	qy	Are you think of doing any, like, centuries, or ...

sv^e	that would be cool sometime if I could, you know, work up to that.	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh.	sv	I mean people seem to get into different aspects.

sd	my wife would just love that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	There again, I'm just kind of a fledgling into this.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I was just reading through a bicycle magazine and going through all the different tours coming up.	b	Yeah,

sd	if you live around the Dallas area, you got five or six every weekend to choose from. Because they're really into it.	ba	that's nice.

sd	I didn't know that, you know, until I came down here, and, kind of caught the fever.	ba	Wow.

sd	and, you know, you may say see one or two guys on a bicycle or above the age of fifteen or something,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, other than that it's nothing up there like it is down here.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	So it makes biking a better alternative for transportation.

sv	it's really neat.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I guess I'm going to be busy about every Saturday this summer, going to a different ride.	ba	that's terrific.

sd	see a little bit of Texas I've never seen before.	b	Uh huh.

qw	So, how long have you been biking?	sd	I guess as an adult for just about the past, three years or so .

bk	Yeah.	b	And, yeah,

qy	Have it's kind of slightly off the subject, but you ever had a, a blood workup done recently or since you've been biking, to see if it,	nn	No,

sd	and, you know, it kind of knocks down two of the big risk categories for coronary artery disease which is, low cardiovascular fitness, and also, you know, the cholesterol.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It gives you increased H D Ls and decreases your L D Ls.	ba	that's great.

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, it gets it down to about forty.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

ba	That's good.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	You say you ride about a hundred, hundred fifty miles a week?	ny	Yeah.

sv	that's hard core.	sd	On average,

qy	do you ride inside if you can't ride outside?	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I don't do that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, you know, up here , it's only stopped snowing since then.

b	Yeah.	sv	it's, it's, it's pretty good.

bf	So you, change up your routes a lot, and keep a ...	aa	yeah,

qw	So, what school is it?	sd	University of Rochester.

b	Yeah.	sv	So it's fairly picturesque.

b	Yeah.	sd	so it's, it's a good ride

ba	Sounds neat.	b	Yeah.

sv	That's, motivating.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well good talking to you	fc	it was good talking to you.

fc	and keep up the good work.	fc	Okay,

fc	Take care.	fc	Bye.

sd	I always wanted to know who an expert was.	sd	well, I'm not an expert,

sd	when they replace it, you know, they're going to really come up with something that is not just as bad.	sv	that's another arguable issue

sd	but that it seems to be,	qy	Well, did you see Carl Sagan on SIXTY MINUTES when he was talking about if the, if the war started in Kuwait and they'd set those, all th ,

sd^e	I heard about it though.	sd	it was, it was interesting

qrr	or it was w ,	ny	Yes.

^2	Because of that, you know.	b	yes,

b	Right.	sd	but th , th , the, the com , the general, the opinion among the, meteorologists at,

qy^d	you didn't work at T I?	ny	Yeah,

bk	okay.	sd	But I, I did that in my .

qy	Where do you work in research,	ng	No, I'm a production planner.

bk	okay.	sd	But I, I'm in the active reserves as a weatherman,

b	yeah.	sd	I keep up from time to time,

b	Yeah.	sd	and if there isn't and we do some the right things, I think,

sv	I think that the changing, you know, from leaded fuel was a tremendous advantage, you know, not using ...	qy	Well, do you have an older car?

nn^r	no.	sd	I have been working on an older car

ad^t	we ought to talk about that one day,	sd	Well, I'm restoring one.

sd	I think you can use you know, the ninety two octane I don't think you'll have any trouble.	sd	I'm not having any problem it's a seventy.

sd	I'm saying, I was glad to get rid of leaded gasoline,	qy	But did you have another ques ,

qy	Did you see any of those, I,	nn	No,

sd	although, I thought it was on C N N,	sd	they called nuclear winner

sd	and how it would essentially literally destroy the world, you know.	sd	Well, the Chernobyl accident,

sv	there's probably a lot of natural things,	sv	but when you get up in the morning in Dallas and see all that haze from west Texas, is that pollution?

sd	I don't know if it's air pollution it's dust pollution whether it's natural or not I don't know.	 %	Well, it,

sd	the only buses you see are school buses,	qh	But who wants to, ride a bus?

sd	but, I think people would be interested if you had one, I mean.	sd	Well, my boss drives forty miles one way each day.

b	Yeah.	sd	And one of the guys that works with me drives forty five miles.

b	Yeah.	sd	and they don't think it,

b	Yeah.	sd	so, we all move out out of downtown

b	Yeah.	sd	And now the valley is not

sv	I think that, all of us could use one electric car right now, I mean, today, because I think, you said people drive forty miles and fifty whatever,	aa@	Yes, yes. Well, do ...

sd	but I think we all could, in a family, say, have an electric car where one of my daughters or my wife, she could use one now if they had one, you know, because she doesn't put fifty miles a day on the car.	 +	General Motors apparently has one that they're testing,

sd	but, they have a battery car.	sd	But they suppose,

sd	but now that you just mentioned that.	sd	Well, the ROAD and TRACK was talking about that apparently General Motors has some,

sd	we're nine years away or less, I guess, from the next century and I think,	sd	Well, there's still a lot of research,

sd	and it's probably more generating power for, you know, electricity, a hundred and twenty volt or whatever.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	I'm actually in the south building	sd	I'm at ,

sd	so I've been in most of the buildings anyway.	sd	well, I'm in the C building,

 sd	It's, right there on the first floor you walk by there.	sd	I know the focal plain array is they were taking space a long time.

sd	and I guess it's just not, economical yet because of the other fuels.	sv	Well, the problem is that gas at a dollar a gallon, you know, who wants to,

sd	It was just pure automobiles.	sd	Well, I thought I saw an ad for Volkswagen that had an alcohol,

qy	There?	sd	they had one with spots on it and something.

sd	I didn't see,	sd	an article.

qy	did you go?	nn	No,

bk	Oh.	sd	I didn't go,

sd	of course, they're burning gasoline, of course.	sd	They've done a lot.

 b	Oh.	sv	and it sure sounds like that's going to be a really viable program if it continues to be funded at current levels.

 b	Uh huh.	 sv	they're going to be doing a lot of interesting things.

b	Yeah.	sv	So, you know, there's there's a big opportunity for us to explore, what sorts of things you can do in a zero gravity environment.

b	Sure.	sv	So. I suspect that we'll see a lot of gains from that.

sd	I think it would be very interesting to do but whether it would be feasible to do I don't know.	sd	Well, as far as the practical aspects go, I suspect that the space station may actually be a good compromise between, you know, , I'm sorry, deep space exploration and not doing anything because we have the opportunity to off load some things to the space station.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, perhaps we can find better techniques for doing things that, we'd normally do down here that are damaging to the environment.

qy^d	I'm sure you probably have heard of the Genesis program that's going on currently out in the Arizona desert.	 ny	Uh huh.

sv	and the people, their moods are extreme, you know.	b	Right.

sd	So I wonder how, you know, somebody living up in space is going to be able to tolerate never seeing the sun . You know, in the aspect that we see it. and never seeing, you know, light, bright days, you know.	b	Right.

qr	would you, like to begin or would you like me to start?	sd	I can start.

bk	Okay.	sv	I think one of the biggest, improvements in women is that finally you're starting to see them get into, management

b	Yes.	sv	and you're seeing them, get, elected to, political offices.

 b	Uh huh.	 +	not near enough.

aa	I agree.	sv	You're not seeing, you know,

b	Right.	sd	And I have a sister that's an attorney in Oklahoma City,

sv	I think you do see more and more women out there in politics, too, as mayors or, you know, in helping to maybe, get some legislation passed to have women have more rights.	b	Yes.

sv	and I just think that it's still going to take another generation or so before, before the women could really feel that they're really equal in the business world and that they work just as hard or harder .	b	Uh huh,

sv	going from homemakers into, corporate leaders is still a big step.	b	Right,

b	Right.	sv	it was, then it was almost like a put down, particularly even by women in the work force.

aa	Yes.	sv	And it's getting the respect which is about time.

sv	I think also people are having children at a older age	aa	Yes,

sv	and, you know both sides of the coin.	ba	That's right.

sv	But then when they're in their thirties and have their first and second kid, it's like, they lose it .	b	Right.

^q	This is harder than I thought .	aa	Yes .

ba^r	I know.	sd	Because I know I stayed home with mine and didn't start working until mine were in high school.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	so, you know, it kind of does me good.

 ^2	Are so involved.	 +	so involved with families.

aa	Yes.	sv	Which, again, I think helps a woman's role.

sv	Their role has to change to kind of accommodate us, too.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and I was just out of the house two days a week	b	Uh huh.

sd	my husband still got up and went to work	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't think I could swing that personally.	sd	Well, I had to,

ba	boy.	sd	and so I would work

b	Right.	sd	I was absolutely exhausted.

ba^r	I bet.	sv	and these women that are waiting until they're in their late thirties, or early forties to have their first children, I think are absolutely crazy.

sv	and that's not considered really young these days,	b	Uh huh.

qw	So, what do you think of our trial system? .	h	I don't really know what to think about it,

b	Yeah.	qy	Have you noticed that?

ny^r	yeah.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I don't, I don't even know what to do about that sort of thing.	sv	But I think trial by jury it's a lot better than leaving it up to one person.

sv	I think that's actually good idea.	qy^d	Leaving it up to the judge?

na	We , just sentencing, not the trial itself.	bk	okay.

sv	because I think th , that, that judges are probably more informed as to how serious the nature of the crime is, and stuff like that	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	Course the judge will know when he'll be up for parole and all that.

sv	so he'll be able to give them the maximum sentence, in some cases there.	b	Okay,

sd^t	they give that as an example of something that, that might happen ye ,	b	Uh huh.

aa	yes.	sd	But, I don't know,

sv	there are two people who say well he just looks guilty,	b	Right,

sd	when you're called for duty say oh yeah, I want to be on jury duty because I can spot a guilty person a mile a way.	b	Yeah.

sv	They quickly let you off jury duty I hear,	b	Right

sv	and they can't decide for hours, unless they convince that one person, you know.	qy	Does it have to be unanimous?

na	I believe it does have to be unanimous, actually.	sv	Well then they consider it a hung jury, I think

sv^e	I think they either have a retrial eventually or they call it a mistrial or something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I haven't been to law school.	b	No,

sd	I think well, what if I were that one person and I was completely convinced that, that, that this person wasn't guilty, you know.	sv	Well you don't have to be really convinced that he's guilty,

sd	but, I mean what if eleven other people are saying one thing, you know, and you're, you're the one person saying the other thing.	 b	Yeah.

sv	You know, would you give in.	sd@	I would hate to be that person because you would be, you know, bombarded by all the other eleven jurors to, you know, just say he's guilty so we can get out of here and go

^2	saying .	sd@	home. * should this be in the above slash unit? The slash unit should end here. Yeah.

sv	what's the cut off number, seven, five, you know, six, six,	b	Uh huh.

qh	how do you decide what number of people have to say that.	aa	Yeah,

ny	Yeah.	t3	Kyle, I'm talking,

sd	I've never quite understood that.	sd	Well I just think it's weird because I've saw, well, of course, soap operas,

b	Okay.	sd	This one guy had, framed himself to make it,

sd	and they can't do anything about it.	b	Yeah,

qy	or can they, you know, bring you back.	nn	No,

sd	I've seen the same thing on L A LAW as well.	qy^d	about that woman.

sv	you know, something like, well you can't be tried for the same trial because that would bias the, the, the jury or something,	b	Right,

b	uh huh.	sv	I'm sure the prosecuting attorney could make a real good case if he, you know, knew all the details of the defendant's, you know, case.

sv	when someone is on trial for something, you can't bring up prior convictions.	b	Right.

sd	that's completely beyond me,	b	Yeah,

sv	I mean if this man is accused of raping someone, then I think that something like sex, you know, the fact that he sexually assaulted someone is a crucial bit of evidence, that adds to the fact,	b	Yeah.

sv	and I'm sure that, that there are some reasons for good.	sv	Well that one does seem out of it, though, because it, we , you're allowed to show their character,

b	Right.	sv	And if it shows that their character's, you know, capable of lesser thoughts like that and stuff.

b	Then right,	b	Right,

sd	but I don't quite understand.	sv	Tell you what we need to do is go into law and then we'll be able to,

br	Do I vote?	ny	Yeah,

ny	yes.	bk	Okay,

b	Yeah.	sv	Putting the right people in the office, that's a lot to do with it too.

b	yeah.	sv	a lot of the politics will pass laws and stuff that the, general public wants,

sv	but then again often times they don't, as well.	b	Right.

sv^r	Often times they don't,	b	Right.

sv	and they sort of don't care about anything and just want to go ahead an,	b	Right

ba^r	that's true.	b	Yeah.

sd	I wonder about the politics of it all,	b	Right,

sv	I mean, that's even another issue, you know,	b	Right.

sd	we had, a serial killer around here, who killed eleven women.	 b	Uh huh,

sd^e	his name is Arthur .	qy	Well did they have a T V movie about him?

sd	'cause he was just on trial like maybe a year ago.	qw	Well, well, how was he killing the women.

sd	he was strangling some of them.	qy	Were they jogging on a,

sd^e	usually they were prostitutes, actually.	bk	okay.

sd	he was in prison for, sexually assaulting two children.	sd	see, that's what I mean,

sd	and they, they realized later he had killed about between eleven and twelve women, at least	sd	I think my sister is married to a guy from Rochester.

b	really,	b	Yeah.

bf	way up north here,	aa	Yeah

sd	Still way up north, sort of,	b	Yeah,

sd	and what they were pleading was, they were pleading insanity.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean it's clear to me the man is insane.	ba	Well of course.

sv	and he should be just locked up for life.	sv	But they just need to do something with him.

sv	and by the end, I realized that maybe it would have been better if it wouldn't have been a jury of his peers, but if they had a jury of psychiatrists instead, to sort look at it, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, it would be an interesting thought if you're,	sv	Well, it's supposed to be a jury of your peers,

sv	but give them a bunch of psychotics but at least have a, have a bunch of psychiatrists, you know, just to look at him and decide from then.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	Advice for parents, help their kids through college.	b	Yeah,

sd	I just graduated from college.	bh	did you?

ny	Yes.	qw	Where did you go?

sd	I went to Clarion.	bf^m	Clarion.

aa	Uh huh.	 qy	I mean, if you had children, would you want them to go to a certain place

sd	I would want them to make that decision	b	Yeah.

sd	I pretty much made my decision on my own and my older brother, likewise.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, you know, we were both pretty much happy with what we did.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I think, I would not push them towards any one place.	b	Uh huh.

 b	Uh huh.	 %	But, you know, I know,

 b	Uh huh.	h	I do not know,

 aa	exactly.	 %	But,

 sd	I think one of the first things kids ought to look for is, first of all, they have to decide what they want to major in. And then, you know, find a school that's good for that.	b	Uh huh.

ng	Well I picked it for a couple of reasons, it was only about an hour and ten minutes away from home, so it was far enough away that I was away, but yet close enough if I ever wanted to go home, I could.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I lived up at school.	b	Uh huh.

sd	another reason was, I paid for my entire education. So I had to look for something that I could afford economically.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, and, it was roughly around six thousand a year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I did not order out a lot,	 b	Uh huh.

 sd	and you know, I did not spend money on myself.	 b	Uh huh.

 %	so,	 b	Yeah.

 sd	they are known as a teacher's school and also for their business.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	So, that's what I ended up going for is for business.	 bf	For business.

aa	Uh huh.	qy	So, are you working somewhere then

sd	so I am not looking around here.	bk	I see,

sd	Maryland.	bh	are you?

ny	Uh huh.	qy	Do you have friends there

sd	My fiancee is down there .	 bk	I see.

aa	Yeah	b	So, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I am originally from Illinois, but, you know, I have gone to college, I guess a few different places,

aa	Exactly.	sd(^q)	and I will say, here's what you have got,

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	I put my wife through school too.

 b	yeah.	 %	You know, you,

 sv	It does have a lot of bearing on it, whether you are paying for yourself,	 b	Right.

 +	or whether your parents are, you know.	 b	Yeah.

 ^q	If you goof,	 b	Right.

 sv	that's not that wonderful either.	 b	Uh huh,

 sd	I worked.	 b	Right.

 b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, so I think that helped me be real serious about it.

 b	Uh huh.	 +	and, you know, a family and everything else,

sd	and I pulled myself from a two oh to a two five, you know,	 b	Uh huh.

 +	in my senior year.	 b	Yeah.

 sd	But I would have really liked to go on, secondary ed with math education,	 b	Uh huh.

 b	Uh huh.	 +	for,

 b	Uh huh.	sd	But, you know, by then she had practically got her degree,

qy	are you there?	ny	Yes, sir,

qo	How about yourself?	 sd	Well, actually I've done both kinds

 qy	Did you ev , Did you ever do the James River?	 +	catch a lot of things in the ocean there.

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	I moved here to State College, in nineteen fifty five

sd	and the trout fishing is supposed to be legendary.	 sd	The trout fishing is really, beautiful.

 b	Yeah.	 +	so that I can then find out the type of lures that they use and where they fish, and any unique, techniques that would help you.

qy	Do you fly fish, or are those streams too small?	na	no,

b	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but right now it's, bass and striped bass is the only thing that I go for down in, Texas.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	and they're pretty exciting when they're running.	 b	Uh huh.

qy^d	April to October or something like that?	na	That sounds about right

b	Uh huh.	ny	uh huh,

qw	what's a license cost?	sd	Well, as I say, it's been several years,

 sd	It's about the same as Texas.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I have all sons, so I think I'm probably going to be fishing for a long time .	sd	I just have one son and he lives out of the state now, rather, in the eastern corner of it,

sd	It's really ,	bh	is that right?

ny	yeah.	ba	my goodness.

 b	Right.	 sd	Well, I, the disease I caught was simply because, I was in the Norfolk Portsmouth area,

b	Uh huh.	sd	there's so much water around that, you're either boating or you're fishing

 b	Right.	 sd	and, I fairly enjoyed at that time.

 b	Uh huh.	sd	when I go on one of the large lakes that we have here I enjoy fishing for trout from that,

 qy	Are there many?	sd	Well, as I say, I'm in Center County.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Now these aren't huge lakes from your point of view

b	Uh huh.	 sd	but they are probably fifteen, twenty acres maybe

b	Uh huh.	 +	which here is a lot of water,

qw	What do you do there in Lubbock as far as, recycling is concerned?	sd	Well, you know they actually started

b	Uh huh.	sd	either computer paper or different types of paper.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've had some ideas on how I think they could probably do it a little less expensively and accomplish the same purpose,

qw	Wha , what would be more efficient about it.	sd	Well, you know, they have boxes located at certain areas throughout a module, or down the hall

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, where I use to work we had what we called tree boxes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they were recycled cardboard.

sd	I, I, was going to say cause I know I have right here a trash can for trash and a trash can for for paper on it you know	b	Right.

sd	and, if if if I printed up something that I don't need it, just chunk it in the paper.	b	Right,

ba	That's true.	sd	and whereas if you had a box that pretty soon it got full, you close the box, it's already bundled, it's already done for you.

ba	Certainly that's a good idea.	sv	So you're saving a lot of time and effort.

b	Uh huh.	qo	So, what else do they do in the Dallas area?

sd	and I have heard in residential situations, like in Plano that they are doing, stuff like having recycle picked up	b	Uh huh.

sd	Doesn't really cost the, department.	^2	Anything extra.

sd	they don't pay for the recycled items.	ba	That sounds good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I've not done that,

sv	you know if you you wanted to recycle you newspapers it was impossible.	^2	Find a place.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know that they yet have the facilities here to do the tin cans.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think they can do the plastics, like the liter bottles things like that.

b	Uh huh.	h	but, I don't know.

sv	Well, that's good.	sd	I do that

b	Yeah.	sd	you drive through Burger King now and the bags are recycled paper

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, so, you know I feel like people are more aware of it or becoming more aware of it.

qy	would you tend to chose the one that does	ng	I'm not as good about searching something out like that

b	Uh huh.	sd	but if I am there and the choice is there I would probably take the recycled product.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, you know, that's just where I probably need to be a little more responsible, citizen wise, you know, looking or searching those out because you figure if we as the citizens do that then the manufactures and producers will start packaging it that way.

b	yeah.	sd	So, you know, they are getting away from the styrofoam,

o	Okay.	o	Yes.

sd	well, right now we have one dog inside.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I mean she's an indoor dog.	b	Yes.

sd	And two outside cats.	ba	gosh.

sd	Male and female.	qw	And how long have you had them?

sd	the dog is probably about thirteen, fourteen years old.	b@	Yes. Kind of lose track .

aa	Yeah.	sv	Well, that's interesting because we have a simi ,

b	Uh huh.	 sd	and she is going to be thirteen this summer

qy	is that right?	ny@	Yes, uh huh.

qw	What kind of dog do you have?	sd	she's, a mix of Cock , Cocker Spaniel and Poodle.

 sd	that's what ours is .	qy	Is that right?

ny	Yes.	bh	Isn't that interesting ?

sd	White.	sd	well, ours is black,

b	uh huh.	sd	definitely different .

ba	I'll be darned.	b	Yes,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, she's slowing down considerably.

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	she doesn't see very well

sv	Well, that's to be expected at,	 b	Yeah,

 +	their age.	sd	at this age, I guess so.

 b	Yeah.	sd	But, she's been a good dog to have,

sv	Well, everybody always says no more .	b	Yeah,

sv	But I think animals are really important in the family.	aa	I agree,

sd^e	we, have five.	b	Uh huh.

sd	She was fifteen when she died.	 ba	My goodness.

sd	a farmer called us and wanted us to call or the dog catcher or somebody to come and get this puppy that, somebody,	b	Uh huh.

sv	people drop things like that off, up there,	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	I told the kids, "Let's go look at her" .	b	yeah.

sd	So that's how we got her, quite by accident.	b	Isn't that,

 b	Uh huh.	 +	then we went out then, and found one,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and, she was so cute because all the other little puppies in that litter were just crazy.

b	Oh.	sd	and I thought, that's the dog for me .

^q	She picked us .	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, she just loved this little dog,

b	Oh.	 +	to pieces

b	Uh huh.	sd	Our son, on the other hand, who was about eleven at the time, was, not very interested in pets,

ba	for heaven's sake.	sv	So you just never know how that works out .

sv	But they say it's real important for children to have pets because, well, they can go and talk to them any time,	b	Uh huh,

sv	and, nobody is going to, you know, reprimand them or, know their secrets	b	Yeah.

 %	or ,	b	yes,

b	Yes .	ba	dear .

sv	And the nursing homes now, they're finding that it's real important to take a pet into a nursing home.	b	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	b	Uh huh,

sd	our one nursing home in has one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Permanent .	qy	Is that right?

na	he kind of has free run of the place, and there is or somebody takes care of him.	bh	Isn't that amazing?

sv	and real nice dog,	b	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, that made me think of, when our daughter was looking at colleges, we visited a campus in, Saint Louis

 bh	really?	 +	and, the,

b	Oh.	 +	I'm sure someone, you know, fed them.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, our guide that day said that , one woman many, many years ago had given a huge sum of money to the university, on the condition that there be, dogs just kind of left to roam around the campus. Which is the strangest thing I had ever heard .

sv	because most campuses don't allow pets, you know,	b	I know.

sv	they just do not allow them.	aa	Yes,

sv	that's kind of great.	aa	Yes,

b	Yeah.	sv	and it kind of made it seem more homey too .

b	yeah.	sv	I thought that was most unique.

b	Uh huh.	 %	but, I,

b	uh huh.	sd	and so they were never allowed in the house, you know,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	they were always kind of,

sv	we've ruined them .	b	Yeah,

sv	They say ruined them .	b	Yes.

sd	the kids had rabbits for pets,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we also raised them for food, at one time.	b	Yeah,

sd	And . We've had a skunk for a pet. For more years than I want to think about .	ba	my golly.

sd	She was in the house .	ba	gosh.

ad	Well, don't ever get one for a pet.	b	Oh.

sd	they don't ever learn their name.	b	Oh.

sd	you could never call her and she would come to you,	b	Yeah.

sd	you had to go chase her down.	ba	I'll be darned.

sd	And, their eyesight, they can't see very far either.	 b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	before we got her, everybody said, "Oh, they're just like a cat," you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That's about it .	bh	Isn't that interesting?

sd	Probably seven or eight years.	ba	Goodness sake.

sd	and I don't think she was there a week till the men built her a pen outside .	ba	my gosh.

sd	And I thought, I put up with that all those years .	b	Yes,

sd	And, we've had cats, stay in the house.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	we had two Siamese cats. Different times.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the second time he never came back.	ba	My goodness.

sd	And we would see him, several miles from our house,	b	Uh huh.

sd	he kind of moved into a woods down there.	ba	I'll be.

sd	And he got huge down there.	 ba	My goodness.

sd	but he, he never came back.	ba	That's in ,

 sd	Well, he wasn't a whole lot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He was in the house most the time,	b	Yeah.

sd	it makes a much nicer cat if they're outside.	qy	Is that right?

sd	and the vet had told us they get strange, if they're kept in the house all the time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it did get strange .	b	Yeah,

sd	And since they've moved to where they let the cat out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I usually watch those prime time programs.	b	Right.

sd	You know, the Sunday night movies, I watch those kind of things. but basically a lot of documentary things and, you know, what's going on and that kind of thing.	sd	I have a few, you know, favorite shows that I try not to miss.

b	Uh huh.	sd	L A LAW is one of them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Although this year's, it's a little easier to miss than last year. With the new cast and everything.

sv	it's hard to follow.	b	Right,

 sd	I've never seen that one.	sd	THE TRIALS OF ROSIE O'NEILL with Sharon Gless.

sd	I've seen the previews for that.	sv	It's very good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, and then there's a new sitcom on that is, Tim Allen's, what is it, HANDYMAN.

sd	or we try not to miss that.	qy^g	It's hysterical, isn't it?

na	we think it is, so funny.	qy	Did you catch the Christmas? .

na	just part of it .	sv	I thought it was, you know,

b	Uh huh.	qy	Did you see the end of it?

nn	No.	qy^d	Well, you know, the little boy, the little one was trying to decide if there was a Santa Claus.

sd	they thought it was the neighbor.	sd^m	They thought it was the neighbor.

b	Yeah.	sv	I thought that was wonderful.

sd	And then, it's, it appeared that maybe it probably wasn't the neighbor.	sd	And, used to be on Sunday nights, now I can't figure out where they've moved it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it showed the latest, developments from all the computer companies.

sd	I've never seen that program.	sv	unless you're really into computers, and software, you probably wouldn't be interested,

b	Uh huh.	h	but

b	Uh huh.	 +	I don't know,

 b	Oh.	sd	And, you know, they covered everything from entertainment to spreadsheets, you know, and then also, the hardware.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So you could see what the new developments were and what to look for

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was just a thirty minute show with no commercials.

b	okay.	sd	public television, course, doesn't have the commercials during the show

b	right.	sd	And I like the FRUGAL GOURMET.

sd	if I can catch them, I do. Or if I remember.	sd	Well, there's very few that, you know, my life would stop if I didn't catch.

sd	I watch one	sd	Well, I watch two,

b	Oh.	sd	And that's the BOLD AND THE BEAUTIFUL and AS THE WORLD TURNS.

b	okay.	sd	And I've watched the, AS THE WORLD TURNS since I was a little girl .

sd	that's been on for years.	sd	it's, something I've done for the last probably twenty five years.

qy^d	and so you get to come home and watch them .	ny	Yes,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But I like every, I like {F uh, the information shows

b	Uh huh.	sd	I subscribe to H B O.

b	Yeah	sd	So I can get some of the movies.

sd	but we just canceled it last week because it seemed like it was so repetitious, you know.	aa	It is.

sv	if you're up then .	sd	and you don't get good reception without cable

b	Right.	 sd	so

b	Right.	 +	that's primarily why I have it right now.

qw^t	About how many calls have you made on this system?	sd^t	I've originated only a few.

b	yeah.	sd^t	But I've received quite a few.

sd^t	So I started about a month ago	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't really know.	b	yeah.

qy^d^t	you've a few?	b	Yeah,

sd	That's mine.	sd^t	you pushed the record button.

ad	Go ahead, you first.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm quite pleased with it.

sd	the ones, that I think are the highest and important to me, I hope I never have to use them, really per se, although I've used medical a little bit	b	Uh huh.

sv	I sure like that one.	b	yes.

sd	you like to have it there.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now I really got caught up back in eighty five,

 b	Right.	 +	exploration.

qr	With T I, or somebody else?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I say, I wasn't connected with G S I.

 b	yeah.	sd	And, I got caught up in a layoff.

b	Yeah.	sd	but, what T I did for us is, I've never heard of it before. They fixed us up with an office with, telephones, access to long distance, computers, a secretary to take messages for us or type, letters, for us.

b	Right.	sd	they had out of town newspapers

 qy	Didn't they have an outside consultant, too?	br	I beg your pardon.

qy	Did they have an outside consultant, like the employ ,	ny	yes.

b	Yeah.	sd	course that was not, restricted just to just us.

b	Right.	 sd	But the most important thing was that, they had made up the difference between, unemployment pay and seventy five percent of my net pay.

bh	really?	sd	So, I was able to, not just exist.

sd	and our organization builds those facilities over in Park Central now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He was very thankful for that, too.	sd	Well, this was not a learning thing by any means.

sd	he thought he had a Ph D in how to get a job after he was, through the whole process, for several months.	b	Oh.

sd	He did eventually get a job.	sd	Well, course I went through this, what, about five years ago.

sv	And I guess it may be one of the best, that anyone's doing.	sd	Well, that's one of those little extras that you don't see in the, the, the handbook, you know.

qo	What do you think about pensions?	 sd	I'm getting close to retirement.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, of course I've been looking into it but, since I'm only a yellow badger, I won't be getting a whole heck of a lot from T I, as far as retirement is concerned.

sd	I've been thinking about that for years,	sd	I've never heard of such a thing.

sd@	say you work for two, three companies, you take your pension with you after you're vested. And then just add the money together like you do with a four O one account, you know.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	That's your account to roll over.	sd	that sounds like a hell of an idea.

sd	So you work for a company seven years,	b	Yes,

sv	it's there.	b	Yeah,

sd	That's just a thought.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	Course, that's, something like an I R A

sv	But I, I can see where they'd need to do something on that because the statistics are,	b	Uh huh.

sd	a lot of people I know, guys,	b	Yeah,

sv	It would be nice if they could get them together.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	I haven't used it for anything major.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm glad it's there, though.	sd	Well, knock wood,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I like that, a lot better than AETNA

sd	and every time I needed it, it, it's, you know, fallen right in line for the, minor things	b	Uh huh.

 sd	I guess I'm the one just supporting most of the others.	qy	Well, doesn't it work, you don't see, anything until you spend the minimum?

sd	but the dental is right away, if you,	b	Yeah.

sd	the medical you have to have a deductible.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	they just raised it to twelve.	sd	that one I haven't heard about.

sd	The forms are right in personnel.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's through Baxter Labs.	b	Yeah,

qy	do you buy your pills one at a time?	ny	Yeah,

sv	but it's a lot cheaper,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I take two.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and maybe, maybe I'll tell you something you didn't know about in benefits .	b	Yeah,

sv	you know, it's a very common thing.	ft	Well thanks,

sd	It's through Baxter Labs,	ft	thanks for the tip, Jim.

fw	Yeah.	sd	I shall look into it.

sv^t	I'm sure we're getting close to our five minutes whatever, here.	aa	Yeah

qw	What other benefits,	sd	retirement.

sd	but again a hope I never use that one.	b	Uh huh.

sv	That means you're really sick if you have to use that one.	qo	What about vacation?

sd	so I'll get another week when I hit fifteen.	b	yeah,

sd	I know some people who have twenty five years and thirty and they want more	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I won't be around that long.

sv	And none of it has been good .	bh	really?

sd	the ones that can afford to have live in nannies, They seem to be having an okay time.	b	Huh.

sv	I'd say fifty percent of, you know, my peers in my circle of friends have tried it and then stopped working until they're, you know, going to get their children in kindergarten or first grade.	b	Uh huh.

sv	there must be some good service out there if you really look and pay for it.	b	Right.

qy^d	In terms of what they're talking about.	nn	No.

sd	Infant. ...	bk	okay.

b^r	Infant.	sv	So you're starting from the baseline.

sd	So, we're just going through the process.	b	I see .

qy	Do you have children?	b	Right.

qrr	or is he older now or younger	sd	Well, he's now eighteen. And in, you know, has completed a couple of years of university.

sd	So he's out of daycare .	b	right.

b	uh huh.	sd	But I was very lucky because I was a college professor.

b	Oh.	sd	And so I was able to, you know,

b	Yeah.	 +	my apartment.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I left him in a carry cot when he was very little .

b	Yeah.	sd	Because I was gone only an hour at a stretch or an hour and a half.

ba	that's wonderful.	sd	And I was able to, you know, get, his schedule just, cooperated.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	But I've done free lance writing in the past,	 b	Uh huh.

sd	I've always been in a corporate, environment.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, I think that's th , something that couples need in going into this.	b	Uh huh.

qw	What part of the country are you in?	sd	I'm in Maryland.

sd^m	You're in Maryland.	sd	but I was out of the country when, my son was little.

sd	That's what I'm hoping.	sd	and then later on when he was, you know

b	Uh huh.	sd	we're talking about, I went back to work or taught some classes like a week after he was born.

b	Yeah.	b^r	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	But then later what I did was I brought a woman into the house.

b	Sure.	sd	And she was supposed to help me a little bit with cooking and doing the baby's laundry and this sort of stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then, I also came home and sort of was able to see from a distance what she was doing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, in a sense she carried him around a lot, too much. you know for my taste.

b	Right.	sv(^q)	It was constantly, no, I don't want him, to explore anything.

qy^d	From a mother's standpoint, I mean in a way, it was quote and unquote good objectivity.	na	I think it worked out very, very well.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he had asked for a paper and, you know, sort of scribble

b	Yeah.	sd	and there were active times.

sd	I mean, you're far enough away now I can tell you since this is locally, I make sure, we're going to Romania in a few weeks.	b	Oh.

 %	And that's, just .	qr	Did you say Romania or Armenia?

sd	R , Romania.	bk	okay.

sd	As in, like, what Twenty Twenty and, but we're real excited because we've just developed a contact. Through professional people	ba	good.

sd	we're just very excited .	ba	great.

sv	When you deal with issues like that, in terms of family building through adoption, and then you have people responding to you, well if you go through that why would you put them in daycare.	bd	that's silly.

sd	I feel that if the child is healthy, and as long as we make it feel secure, I'd love to do something like with what you did.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't think I could be dumper where I could take it from, you know, eight in the morning till nine at night or six at night and leave it there.	b	Right.

h	I don't know.	sv	I mean your kids need you .

qw	what country were you, in Europe when you were	ar	No,

sv	it just seems the United States does not provide for either child care or elder care, as I call it.	b	Right,

sv	and we're just not set up for that.	b	yeah.

ad	Go ahead.	ar	No,

ba	See, I think that's wonderful.	sd	And, I mean, that was recently after my son, was going off.

b	Right.	sv	I think we're too much towards it's somebody problem, you know.

sd	I'm that way.	^q	I want to work.

sv	and I agree with that.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's amazing to me how forthcoming people are with their opinions and thoughts .	b	Right,

sd	But I've been at companies where, you know, the, the trend is, or the definite mood is, well we made conscious decisions not to have children.	ba@	And that's sad. Right.

sd	and, I respect, there are some women that I know that are divorced or on their own or in single parenting and men that you know, they may have the need for child care like that.	b	Uh huh.

ba	But I agree with you, that it's just, I call it dumping .	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and as long as one can supervise it and, you know, make it work into one's own schedule without it seeming like dumping or or, or, giving it, you know, the whole job to somebody else to take care of.

sv	it's in tandem then.	b	Yeah,

sv	One of the things that is a problem is in terms of compensation to some of the child care providers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And some people that are not making more than twenty thousand a year ...	b	Yeah.

b	Really.	 sv	there are several, u , m , mothers who stay home.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's probably not completely legal .

b	Sure.	sd	But, and they take care of another child

b	yeah.	sv	And I mean that's another possibility

sd	and she's at home part time paralegal.	b	Yeah,

qy	is child care or that type of idea completely foreign to them?	nn	No.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But then he actually started kindergarten at age three.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so, and you know, it wasn't like prekindergarten,

b	Yeah.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	ny	But, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and also there aren't that many women who d , who work.

sd	I was wondering about that.	b	Yeah.

sd	and there were enlightening things that broke some of my stereotypical thoughts.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	but, I was just real curious when you said Middle East, if you didn't mind me asking.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, even if you did, that's okay actually.	nd	Well, no

ny	Yes.	b	Okay,

b	Okay.	sd	Well, we just ate out, had a big lunch actually because we both have been working late

qy	is that good?	ny	Yeah.

sd	but, I like it's okay.	sv	Then this will probably,

b	Uh huh.	sv	That sounds terrible to tell you to go somewhere where it's not that great

bd	That's okay.	sd	but my, softball unit here is acting like he's dying of tramane poison .

b	Uh huh.	sd	which I'm not Italian,

ba	that sounds really good.	sv	So it wasn't too bad it really wasn't

b	Yeah.	qy	but do you have any favorite?

qy	Well are there just the two of you?	ny	yes,

sd	well, when my husband and I go out we have four children.	ba	you're kidding.

sd	the fast food ones are probably the ones they like the best.	ba	sure.

sd	so we like to go to a pizza place where you can buy a pizza for one price and feed the whole family, and like that.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we usually head on down, what's the freeway down here?	qy^d	six thirty five?

ny	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but one of our favorites is Pappasito's.	b	yeah,

sd	we love to go there.	sd	We went there on my birthday in March it's great.

sd	You know it always kills me cause I don't like the decorations so much	^2	too much like a bar naturally, and Mexico,

b	Yeah	aa	yeah,

sd	But I love the food,	 sv	The food is probably,

sv	the food is great.	sd	I'm not a I'm Mexican food gourmet by any means

ny	uh huh.	sd	the shredded beef the type of, spices or sauces they use.

sd	it's a shrimp dish,	b	Really.

sd	and I don't remember the name of it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's really good.	sd	I've never had anything there that wasn't delicious.

ba	they are really good.	 sd	Even though you have to stand in line and all of that, that's the only thing I don't like about it too

b^r	yeah.	sd	Even though we don't have kids we've been married long enough to, not be around that.

b	Yeah.	^h	I'm trying to think of what else we like to eat.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean lunch today was eighteen dollars.

sd	it's very expensive.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah	sd^t	I'm glad I'm talking about food normally these conversations are ,

qy^t	Sometimes it's hard isn't it to keep a,	ny	Yeah,

sd	sometimes Mark and I, that's my husband Mark, go to the August Moon which is down there	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's a Chinese, restaurant with the lions in the front,	b	yeah,

sv^e	and, it's pretty good as far as Chinese,	b	Yeah,

sd	but Chinese isn't my favorite	sd	I don't like it at all usually

sd	I like that.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	and I remember when we went , we were married with another couple that was just dating

b	Uh huh.	sd	It made all raw fish tastes great .

bh	Is it?	sd	and the girls wear kimonos and,

ba	how nice.	 +	You know, if you're ever looking for that.

b	Yeah.	t1	but what other kind of foods,

qy	Was it?	ny	Uh huh.

qy^g	That's what we need isn't it?	b	Yeah.

sd	now, I like barbecue okay, Texas barbecue.	b	Yeah,

sd	It's good.	qy	have you ever been to I think it's called Spring Creek Barbecue?

sd	now, they're real good.	 sd	That's real good,

sd	They are good.	sd	my husband's going upstairs,

b	yeah.	sd	I didn't know they had that.

b	Yeah.	sd	I can't talk I had chocolate bavarian tort, for desert, today, which I never eat at lunch

b	Oh.	sd	and it was wonderful.

sv	Just to die for exactly.	aa	It was,

b	Oh.	sd	in fact if I could pick my, restaurants on how their coffee is and how their french bread is and the butter and the desert I would be,

^2	In heaven .	 +	yes, I would be in hog heaven.

 sd	I just had a baby,	 ba	congratulations.

 %	So, they're kind of,	b	Uh huh.

sd	my littlest girl she's still like wants McDonald's, McDonald's, McDonald's .	b	Yeah,

ba	I'm telling you.	sv	It's really sad isn't it cause it's hard to get them away from junk then.

sd	Well, it's kind of funny is sometimes like we all want different things,	 b	Uh huh.

sd	and so there's a H Avenue down here, and along are these fast food restaurants .	b	Uh huh,

sd	and then we go to park over there so we can all have our own.	sv	Well, that's all right as long as,

sd	that's on the nights we can't decide.	sd	I was going to say because with six people how do you,

sd	Well, five of them, they're good, kids.	b	Yeah,

ba	how nice.	 b	Yeah,

 ba	It will be neat.	sd	I think it will be worth it

b	Yeah.	sv	and I think that that would make them drool any way.

b^r	yeah.	qy	You, know, I guess are you is it a little bit of constricted, because a lot of restaurants don't take,

sd	You have to be careful if you go to a restaurant that, that really is more adults you know,	b	Uh huh.

 sd	like we could probably take our oldest son and, and our oldest daughter.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they know how to act,	b	Yeah.

 sv	and some restaurants are really trying to go for that atmosphere kind of thing.	ba	That yuppie kind of crowd, yeah.

 b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

 b	Yeah.	 sd	And that always just bothered me

sd	and I can't think of it.	b	yeah

ba	dear.	sd	I mean I was shocked,

sv	It was one of these you have bad experience and, say I don't think I'll come back here.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	b	Boy,

 b	Oh.	 +	cheap to pay the delivery .

 b^r	yeah.	 sd	I don't like strange people coming to my door,

sd	and I can't really think of any other, places.	b	No,

ba	that's true.	b	Yeah,

ba	there you go.	fc	Well, I enjoyed talking to you,

sd	maybe.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

ad	do you want to start out?	aa	Well, it'll be real easy for us,

qy	are you really?	ny	So, yeah.

qy	Are you strict vegetarians?	ng	We're not vegan vegetarians.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I used to be a complete vegan vegetarian, where I didn't eat any animal products at all.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, it's really difficult in the area if you don't have, you know, the products that you can get.

 sv	There's very few places I'll bet that you could,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	But here, basically, you go to an Italian restaurant or you go to a Mexican restaurant, you know, you know, where you have a little bit more variety as far as the pastas or the the corn meal, you know, or something.

b	Yeah.	b	yeah,

 b	Uh huh.	sd	we don't really eat out too much.

b	Yeah.	sd	we tend to eat at home.

qw	How long have you been doing this?	sd	I've been a vegetarian for, two years now.

qy	Do you feel that it has improved the way you feel?	na	Definitely.

bh	Do you think?	sv	And it makes you more aware of what you're eating.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Because you have to be.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, you k ,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And you're just more aware of food for energy, for energy sake.

sd	I always thought it would be hard to figure what to eat if you were a vegetarian.	sd	Well, that's just it,

b	Yeah.	sd	And when I was a vegan, it's, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	your egg products. If you don't eat any of those,

^2	Because you don't eat any of those things.	sv	but actually you can get everything you need through vegetables.

bh	Is that right?	sv	A lot of people don't know that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Well, the thing is that milk products,

b	Uh huh.	sv	we tend to,

sv	we throw more of it off our bod , out, in other words.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So we're,

b	Uh huh.	 +	Whereas when we eat, say broccoli, you utilize all of it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	your body accepts all of the broccoli.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, it's like, it's like, say, a person using vitamins, as opposed to, vitamin supplements as opposed to eating regular food.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Your body just doesn't accept vitamins and the minerals in the, the vitamins in, supplements that it does in regular food,

ba	That's interesting.	sd	But we both feel much healthier, much healthier.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I couldn't consider going back to eating,

^2	After you have been on this.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And my husband has changed.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, now he feels like I do.

 b	Uh huh.	sd	And he, you know,

bf	He thinks more about them, then.	aa	Yeah.

 b	Uh huh.	sd	And now we both think a lot of well, what is it we're eating in relation to what it's going to give to our bodies.

sv	So you kind of have a combination.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well see, I live in a farming community. So, of course we have a lot of animals and that type of thing raised in our area.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And people here buy a half a cow and put it in their freezer,

b	yeah.	sd	you know. And that's the way I,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, you know, I suppose if you really believe in something you adjust your life

 b	Uh huh.	sv	because your mind.

b	Uh huh.	 sv	inside yourself it's not right.

qy^d	So you would have a little more trouble when you were looking for a dining area than what most most people would.	ny@	yes. Yeah.

sd	Now we wouldn't have that problem, because we're not vegetarians.	qw	So what do you look for when you,

sd	I think the main thing that I look for is, cleanliness, you know, in the appearance of the people that work there.	b	Uh huh.

 +	And the, quality of the food that they serve.	qr	when you're traveling, do you look for places that's established, that you've been to before or are you willing to try new places?

sd	a lot of times we do eat where we know.	aa	Yeah.

sv	because a lot of them are the same no matter where you stop.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I like to sit down and have my, order taken.	qy^d	As opposed to like a cafeteria kind of situation?

sv	well I don't know whether it's age or what it is.	ar	Well no,

b	Yeah.	qh	Why not get the whole,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I feel like it's a treat.

sd	You should have a treat.	ba	Yeah.

sd	Not all restaurants have light meals on their menu, you know.	b	Uh huh.

 %	And I,	 b	Oh.

sd	L I T E, like, things that aren't as heavy a meal.	bk	I see.

sd	and they're not,	^2	Not a lot of gravy and things like that.

sd	but it's not all rest,	sd	You know, I, I like those too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like those too, because, seems like sometimes you order a meal, you order their dinner meal, and it's like they're trying to find out how much you can eat.

 ba	I know	 %	or ,

aa	yes.	 sv	or like evidently people go in there and they're not satisfied that they'd been given enough and they complain

sd	But they have so much food that not matter how hard you try to restrain yourself, you end up eating much more than you need.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I must admit, sometimes I do like a buffet.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that we just tend to eat, overeat.

sv	You can eat as much as you want and you like the food, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	like, Haas's carry a bread bar that is just out of this world .	b	Yeah.

sd	And I eat it because it's so good.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah	sv	Maybe it's not too bad.

 sd	I don't like to, you know, go to anything that's real expensive.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think that's a waste of my money.	^2	Just for food, it does seem like it.

b	Uh huh.	 b	Yeah.

qy	Do you?	sd	we like Indian food,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I love Italian food,

qy^d	Chinese?	na	Chinese

sd	We've got a good Chinese restaurant in town.	b	Yeah.

 sd	you're satisfied,	b	Yeah.

 sd	but you don't feel stuffed and miserable.	b	Yeah,

 b	yeah.	 %	because,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean my husband's great.

b	uh huh.	sd	It's wonderful, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, and, so I'm about forty and whatever,

b	Uh huh	aa	So, yeah.

sd	Well, you're just a youngster then .	b	Yeah,

 sd	I passed the fifty.	 +	spring chicken, I guess .

 sv^t	so it should be real interesting.	 %	Well,

qy	So, you think we're ready?	na	I think I'm ready .

ad	you want to start off?	aa^h	Well, let's see,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and from my mother's generation to my generation just a very, very wide, it's been a big change.

b	yeah.	aa^m	Very much,

b^r	uh huh.	 sd	and we didn't really know what the agenda was going to be 

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think, you know, it got off to a really radical,

sv	I think all things get started sometimes in that manner.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, they come in that way.	sv	And, to make a change, you know, you have to make a splash.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But, to continue in that vein, I think it got a little bit warped and off the track in several areas,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I really do think that women have made a contribution

b	Uh huh.	 +	to human beings, I mean to be human and what it's like and have feelings and emotions

b	Uh huh.	sv	and then the women change around them.

ba	but that is true.	sv	I think men are trying.

sv	Some of them.	sv	But they don't have a national organization of men, to, help them out

b	No.	sv	and what's changing them, though, is the economic situation, where both team, it has to be a team partnership now,

 b	Uh huh.	sv	and they both have to work

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they both have to raise the children, if we're going to have any kind of future at all,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that, I think has been the downfall of the last ten years.

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they wanted to compete with men,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that's wrong.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think they finally discovered that they don't want to be like men

sv	they hurt themselves a little bit in that way.	aa	Absolutely,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I saw the greatest T shirt the other day,

ba	There's a lot of truth in that.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	But, I think men and women both have valuable assets to offer

b	Uh huh.	sd	we were made differently, however you come to that conclusion,

ba@	That's right. Uh huh.	sv	we were biologically, physiologically, made differently

sv	it shouldn't be destroyed.	b	Right.

b^r	yeah.	 sv	and, you know, just sort of all swooshed into one channel sort of thing,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	it's viva la difference , someone said that

b	Yeah.	sv	and I think that you can truly respect the other person,

sv	Well, that's kind of makes it exciting. You know.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah	h	But, I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's still a challenge being in a marriage and trying to figure out those roles

sv	I think now when both are working they have a more of a chance of working together because they're starting out that way.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, the woman doesn't start off at home, raising the kids and goes back into her career, you know, twenty years later. 

sv	and it's, really hard to really to get help. you know to get the work load shared.	ba@	You do. Yeah.

ny	uh huh.	qy	Do you have children?

sd	they're , They're all grown and on their own	ba	my goodness.

qo	how do you mean that? .	sd	Well, I mean, okay,

sd	and our, our baby girl just had a baby girl .	ba	my.

sd	Last week was her first baby.	ba	how exiting.

ba	So it's been real exciting.	fe	I tell you what.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I just love the babies

b	Uh huh.	sd	and since I'm sort of in a medical situation where I can't do that, it's,

qy	Have you been that way long?	ng	Just eight years,

b^m	Just eight years.	sd	the most important years of my life you know .

sv	that's a long eight years, though.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so there have been major, major adjustments,

b	Uh huh.	 sd	but that's another story.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, you know, my husband has really, really filled in the gaps,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean if this is the way it had to be, this is the best way, I could possibly do it

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that has a lot to do with his strength and his, just pitching in and his being able to, you know, all, all ego aside, do a lot of things that really,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	so, when I say men haven't changed I guess I should look at my own backyard sort, of thing

sv	and the way you are also has changed, though. You know, compared to what it would have been twenty, fifty years ago.	ba	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	so, I guess , in the end, you know, you each take your own situation and you deal with it the best you can,

b^m	The best you can, yeah.	sv	they're got a little wobbly and a little shaky there,

sv	I think that's being damaged, a lot.	sv	I think, we're going to see a generation of kids that, you know, are just going to be a little bit, not very nurturing.

sv	They're very capable of working	b	Yeah,

aa	it really is, yeah.	sv	It's dangerous for the woman, too, to think that she can do that

b	Uh huh.	 sv	and she doesn't know who she is

sv	So many have to work to make a go of it, it seems,	aa	Absolutely.

sv	it's not as much of a stigma not to work as it was for a while there.	sv	Well, you know, that's really, I think it depends on what part of the country you're in.

ba	Well, that could be.	sd	I would almost just say that because, you know, down here in the south you know, a woman's role is, a woman's role, sort of thing,

b	Yeah.	 %	and you know,

ba	Much stronger.	sv	and I think that, you know, career women still have a lot of problems here, with the good old boys, here in Texas sort of thing, making career moves

b	Right.	sv	but, you know, in terms of women staying home and being appreciated for their talents, it's just like the way it has been for years. I mean, you know, since the days of the pioneers, around here.

b^r	yeah.	sv	That's the woman's role,

ba	Yes.	sv	and it's hard for her to, you know, watch her peers be appreciated, I think sometimes,

b^r	yeah.	sd	And I have women that do both

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And so I see I little bit of that

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the other gal I wish she could just get out of Dodge, for a while .

sd	But they're both,	^2	Get some peace and quiet.

sv	That's,	b	Yeah,

 +	That's where the trouble lies.	 b	Yeah.

sv	and others can't.	ba	That's true.

sd	She has two little boys.	 b	Uh huh.

 sd	But then, it's real hard because she's got an excellent job.	b	Right.

qy	Well, do you watch much T V?	na	Well, I watch in the evening with my kids .

qw	How many kids do you have?	sd	I have four children.

sd	That is about all I want .	b	Yeah,

sd	They are still babies.	sd	my children like to watch SESAME STREET.

sd	We do not have cable.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Now SESAME STREET is a good program because,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And he has learned to count to twenty from that.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	There are shows that I like.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I let my kids watch things like LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE.

b	Okay.	sv	And the COSBY SHOW is, kind of unrealistic as a family unless you live in upper class and have money.

b	Right.	sv	I think that sometimes the things they show on there though,

sv	But they also have a lot easier time disciplining their kids than real people do.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I watch a show that I like for entertainment.

sd	I love QUANTUM LEAP.	sd	I watch that show every time,

b@	yes. That is a good show.	sd	I like, how he has to help with the people that he becomes. because it is not a show that he just becomes these people and then he lives there for a while and then he is gone.

b	Uh huh.	sv	He has to do something positive to help them.

sv	He always got to change history is what it is.	b	Yeah.

sd	I was glad when they put that back on this channel,	sd	Me too,

 +	because like I said, we only get two channels because we do not get cable.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I do not like him sitting in front of the T V all day.	nd	No,

sd	And I will let him watch the T V when I am wanting to get my house work done.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But other than that, I do not like him glued to the T V all the time.	sv	Well, I do not think it is healthy all the time either.

b	Huh uh.	sd	and my kids like to go play with their friends,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I will not let them watch that.

sd	I do not let him watch it anymore. Because the pieces, like especially where they kill somebody, it is just not good.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean it is just real violent.	sd	today I watched,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they show it in slow motion.

 b	Uh huh.	sv	And before, in a western or something, in the olden days,

sd	they would just fall down.	b	Yeah.

 b	Yeah.	 sv	and it was not, not like today.

sv	They try to make it too realistic.	b	Uh huh.

 %	And,	sv	Too much realism I think, sometimes.

sd	Now he is watching HONEY, I SHRUNK THE KIDS right now.	sv	that is a fun show.

sv	it is cute.	sd	I really

 %	And that,	 +	like that one.

sd	little ROGER RABBIT on before that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they have got THE HE MAN, MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE, the movie.	qr	The cartoon or the,

sv	That is a real cute show.	sv	That has good moral values too.

qy^d	HE MAN?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	good versus evil.	b	Yeah,

sv	well, it sounds like we have the same tapes for our kids anyway.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	I get kind of, saying, "I am sorry kids, this is",

b	Yeah.	sd	And I think it is important that I see what they are watching.

sd	They do have like those parental control things on the, remote controls. You know, where you can block out what channels you do not want them to watch.	qy	You mean in cable?

ny	Uh huh.	 sd	I do not know, because I do not have that.

 sd	Well, my, stepfather and them have, my stepfather, my father in law, and them have that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But still, when the kids get older, they learn how to break through that parental control.	qy	do they?

sv	I think alls you have to do is push a couple buttons.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, it is, I am hoping that he will grow up not really caring much for those movies because, now we have got a lot of western tapes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	JOSEY WELLS, now he loves to watch JOSEY WELLS.	sv	Well, I think that is a good show too.

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah.

 sd	Clint Eastwood.	 b	Uh huh.

sv	Now STAR TREK is good movies, good shows.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We have got a lot of those.	sd	I think not even the old one but the new one too.

qy^d	THE NEXT GENERATION?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	My little boy is crazy about Captain Kirk.	b	Yeah.

sd	And my little girl has Mister Spock's ears .	b	d , ,

 sd	I told my husband he cursed my kids.	b	Yeah.

sd	My little boy grew out of it.	ba	that is not a problem anyway,

aa	No.	sd	but it is fun you know, seeing the show anyway.

qy^d	Kirk Douglas?	nn	No,

sd	Michael Landon.	sd	Michael Landon.

qy^d	Like HIGHWAY TO HEAVEN?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	she is about the same age as I am.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I wanted to be just like her, because she is so cute.	b	Yeah,

sd	I liked it,	b	Yeah.

 sd	that is about the only, show I have seen where every time they sit down at the table, they pray before they eat.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I thought that was real neat. Because there is not a lot of shows that do that.	 b	Yeah.

sd	And, they have this little cartoon that is on Sunday mornings with, Jot.	qw	Now what is that?

sd	They have it like before one of the church things, you know, church that comes on?	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the parents will tell him that there is a verse in the Bible that will help him with that,	sd	I have not seen that.

sd	usually we go to church on Sundays.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it is funny.	qw	What channel is it on?

qy^d	You are in Plano?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	it is twelve or ten down here.	sd	Well, I will look and see.

sd	well, this is of the mornings.	qy^d	It is in the morning?

sd	I think it is before the First Baptist in Sherman airs.	bk	Okay.

sv	I think that is the one that it, comes on before.	sd	Well, we'll look.

sd	I am trying to get my little boy into reading, like church books and things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We have got about eight or twelve books for him, just little Bible stories.	b	Uh huh.

sd	he is getting to where he likes them.	b	Yeah.

sd	He likes it .	sd	Well, I really like,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they sing songs on there

qy^d	So it's a, a Christian songs?	ny	Yeah.

sv	that sounds fun.	sd	it's called the Christian music station or something like that.

ba	That's something.	sd	And, I really like that.

b	Yeah.	sd	I turn that on Sunday mornings.

sd	and I'm up in Wisconsin	b	Oh.

sd	my name is Terry	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, we're not that far from the city where there's tons of pollution.	b	Yes.

ad	I'll go ahead and start recording that,	aa	Okay.

sv	and, I'm sure there's a lot of pollution.	b	Oh.

sd	before moving to Wisconsin lived across from where they were, gravel pits and also where they were making tar,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so we occasionally if the wind was blowing the right direction would get the smell of tar	ba	Ooh.

sd	so and it was like miles away,	b	Right.

sv	but just the idea of having that come across the way it did in the wind kind of made you know that there was a lot of pollution,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but where we also lived, too, it was very close to a highway,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so got a lot of fumes from, trucks and cars	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, it was on your tables,	ba	gosh,

sd	I mean, it wasn't the typical dust that you get way out in the country 	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that's all it needs versus every day when I lived in the city	sd	 I'd never thought about that being a cause,

sd	it comes right on through through the screens,	b	Yeah.

sv	the only way that you could actually live in the city is to close your windows and have an air cleaner system right in your home that would take the air from the outside and clean the air before it would get into the house	b	Uh huh.

sv	if you were well protected by trees, which catch a lot of the pollution then you're fine,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's just going for miles and miles and miles,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's landing somewhere with the wind,	sv	That's kind of the way Dallas is.

b	Sure.	sd	it was all cotton fields,

b	Sure.	sv	and ours I think is primarily cars, where we don't carpool like we should an airport.

b^r	yeah.	sd	I work in a building,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I look out toward D F W International,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I can imagine it's even worse for people living over near the airport.

sd	I mean, our air quality, in the Twin Cities is a lot better than what we've heard about California and maybe in the other areas,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's kind of scary because the air is something we take for granted	b	Yes.

sd	even my husband was, talking to some of the guys at work,	b	Uh huh.

^q	it wouldn't pay	b	Uh huh.

sv	it would save quite a bit on the wear and tear on cars and, you know, the gas,	b	Uh huh.

sv	at least it's with one person	b	Uh huh.

^q	it's too much involvement	sv	But we're paying for it.

sv	and you kind of say to yourself, what kind of future will they have when they think back and say, well, my parents did have the choice to kind of make a difference	b	Uh huh.

sv	but they have to change attitudes,	sv	And it seems to me that it's already so evident with our children having a lot more respiratory infections than we had growing up you can really see it.

b	Sure.	sd	I had a chance to go to Bolivia a couple years ago,

b	Sure.	sd	and it amazed me,

nn	no.	bh	No?

sd^e	My father came in right after World War two.	bk	Okay.

na	I am too young, yeah.	bk	All right.

ny	yes.	bk	Okay.

sd	A couple.	b	Okay.

sd	he was a lineman down there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And while he was there, he caught some kind of a strange disease.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he had like a hundred and five fever for a while	b	Uh huh.

sv	I do not think he was in combat,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	He went to Vietnam one man and came back another, not better.

b	Yeah.	sd	Then, another friend of mine went,

b	Right.	qy^d	he was a Vietnam war veteran.

 sd	But he was in the Navy, though,	b	Yeah.

 +	he was .	 ba	That is true.

sd	It makes a lot of difference.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They really do.

b	Huh.	sv	I think that, Desert Storm, shows a lot of learning since that time.

sv	they did so much to their own people all during that time.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, and they take a, even now, they take a free hand as far as medicine and, you know, how they treat the war casualties, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	If you come back and your leg is blown off, you know, or it is hanging by a thread, they still can't put it back together now.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, But what they do afterwards and how they rehabilitate you.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	not so, much that I say, I do not want you here.

 +	it's about nine or ten percent now.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	even ten years ago, there were not that many.

ba	That's true .	sv	A lot of people have complained in the schools.

b	No.	sv	Not really.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And that is all a result of, of Vietnam.

b	Yeah.	sd	and it concerns me that there is probably a lot of mixed breed youngsters still there.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	And I would be concerned or interested to find out how they are doing now.

sv	there are still people trying to get some member of their family back from, Vietnam.	qr	You are talking about P O W s or missing in actions?

sd	native Vietnamese people.	bf	Native Vietnamese people.

aa	Yeah.	b	Okay.

sd	and they never did get back	sd	that had not occurred to me.

b	Yeah.	sv	That would be an interesting concept.

sd	It spilled over into, now I can't even think of the country.	qy^d	Cambodia?

sd^m@	Cambodia. And to Laos,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, and all they did is run and hide.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it would have been the same as Desert Storm if all they had been fighting was North Vietnam.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, and I am not even sure who was involved more. Whether it was China or Russia.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know, they were pouring weapons in there and well, digging tunnels for them. You know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and there is no way that they could ever catch them.	sv	Well, I think the terrain had a lot to do with the success of Desert Storm as opposed to that in Vietnam.

b	that is right.	sd	You know, there is incredible cover in Vietnam.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you can't find much cover in a sand dune .

sd	and then they try to camouflage the top.	b	Uh huh,

sd	he dug a bunch of moats and filled them with oil	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you know, they had to blow them up or, or disarm them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then they had to fill in little bridges all the way where he had made those moats.	qw	What world war do you think they found the experience for that?

sd^e	partially.	sv	Part of it is that, part of it is technology.

bf	Part of it is technology, yeah.	sv	But when, When you get into trouble like that in a place like Vietnam, you do tend to analyze the problems that you get into,

ad	go ahead.	sv(^q)	and you say, "Never more."

b	Yeah.	sv	and you overcome those problems,

sv	Because	b	Uh huh.

 sv	and they lost him for four hours when they were right on top of him, you know.	b	Right.

sv	He probably just went right down into a tunnel.	b	Sure.

ba	That is right.	 sv	being entirely different people.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That is a long time to suffer.

sv	You stand there with a rifle and blow a piece of somebody apart, or blow their head off,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and that has to affect you if you are human, you know.	ba	yeah,

sv	So they had to work all that anger out, and the nightmares that come along with it.	ba	yeah.

sv	I do not, I do not really think that anybody can ever forget that,	ba	you bet.

sv	but they can reason and, and try to adjust to why they were there.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sd	And I cannot blame them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I sure cannot blame them for being angry.

b	Right.	sd	For the most part, I wish that it had not happened.

b	Yeah.	sd	But it did.

sv	And he did not want to be in it any more than what we started out in August with Desert Storm.	ba	yeah.

sv	And then it just blew up into the war.	sv	Well, it has been that way for a very, very long time, though.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We were reading about the French struggling with that in southeast Asia.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, and, and the Asians historically have always had these kinds of wars going on.

b	Right, yeah.	sv	there has not been a lot of peace in that part of the world.

b	Uh huh	h	I do not know,

b	Yeah.	sv	More so supported them when they got home.

b	Right.	sv	And, I am afraid that they were treated as castaways for the most part.

ba	Exactly.	sd	And I saw the movie, BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY,

sv	More than, what was, APOCALYPSE NOW .	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think so.	sv	Well, I think so.

fc^m	it was nice talking to you.	fc	Uh huh.

fc	bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qy	do you do garden work?	na	As little as possible.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so if I do any garden work, it's only when I go home in the Summer.

qw	Where's that?	sd	It's about two hours north of Pittsburgh.

bk	okay.	b	Yes.

qy	Well, you know, do you do gardening at home?	ny	Yeah,

ba	my goodness.	sd	So, like almost all our vegetables and everything is from the garden.

sv	well I guess you glad you got to go to college so you'd get some rest	sd	But we have like a lot,

sd	We lived in the country for a long time,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have a few flowers, but most of mine are like in barrels and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	I don't like to have to have to pull grass	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I decided that I would plant me a tomato plant in a flower pot and see how it worked.	b	Uh huh.

sv;sd	And mine looks real good .	sd	You know, I've seen a lot of people that do that.

b	Yeah.	sd	I've seen, you know, like elderly people that really can't get out too much sometimes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have a great aunt that lives in a,

b	Oh.	sd	Because she, you know,

sd	and I tried to talk my husband into just buying a whole bunch of pots . And planting them all in it, you know, because that's favorite thing, is tomatoes to grow.	b	Uh huh.

sd	because he's always had a garden out in the country.	b	Uh huh.

qy	you know what day lilies are?	br	Pardon me?

sd^r	Day lilies.	 qy	Are they, well,

ny	Uh huh.	sd	but we call them Morning Glories up here.

sd	a, well, they really look like an orchid when they come out.	b	really.

sd	but they only bloom for one day.	b	Oh.

sd	It only blooms for one day.	qy^d	And then it's done, completely done.

 ny	Uh huh.	bk	Oh.

sd	and I have purple ones	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then they have like, you know, the real velvety looking stuff inside	b	yeah.

sd	That's what they look like.	ba	really pretty.

sd	and she had belonged to this kind of society that like every year, you know, or every so many months they would send you different bulbs that they came out with.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the most expensive one that she gave me a bulb for was like thirty two fifty for one bulb.	ba	my gosh.

 sd	So the next year when she, you know, weeded them out	b	Uh huh.

 sd(^q)	I said, Yes, we may leave that.	bf	take the whole grass, the whole yard.

^q	I think we will leave that.	 ba	That'd be funny.

 sd	my kids, when they were little they had given me some azaleas so I brought all my azalea bushes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you know, I brought as much as I could bring	b	Uh huh.

sd	if I left like one bulb of each one of them, by this year they'd have ten bulbs of each one of them.	 b	Yeah.

 sd	it would cover it right up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I just couldn't see it, you know, going off and leaving everything like that.	 b	Yeah.

sd	I don't do any of the mowing or, you know, edging and all that	b	Uh huh.

sd	But that's because I'm allergic to the grass.	ba	that'd be awful.

b	Really.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	because then it doesn't make me ill .	b	Yeah.

sd	And it's not as bad as it was when we were out in the country.	b	Uh huh.

sd	if I went outside while he was mowing the grass, I was going to have a gigantic attack.	ba	my gosh.

sd	That helps a whole bunch.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	I mean, that's really nice.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, the first thing we always plant is tomatoes	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then we plant cucumbers	b	Uh huh,

ny	yeah.	b	Really.

b	Really,	ny	Uh huh.

 sd	It must be the,	sd	Sometimes we have really good luck with them,

sd	Now I mean, that's something that grows like a weed here.	ba	wow.

 sd	We have to allow extra room for those, you know, I mean extra space, between the rows and all.	b	Yeah

sd@	if we plant, for every one plant we probably get fifty to sixty cucumbers off of it. I mean, just pulling them as fast as you can.	ba	Holy smoke.

sd	We usually give them to everybody.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	But we tried it, too, where you run it up a fence	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean like the little thing would be half on one side and half on the other.	ba	my gosh.

sd	But, I mean, cucumbers here grow like crazy.	b	Wow.

sd	Of course it's real hot here too.	sd	Well, see, tomatoes grow like crazy at our house.

qy	Have you ever had them just come up in different places?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	well, the first year after I mean, we planted them,	b	Uh huh.

 sd	but the first year, you know, after we'd had a crop all these little things like,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I thought, how did this get here	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it was weird, but the birds had, you know, evidently just deposited them for us.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we're finding out,

qy	Do you have any?	no	I'm trying to think offhand

sd	I have one,	bk	Okay.

sd	and when I'm home, you know I'm either cooking or running doing, things or, laundry or stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I hate when the phone rings and it turns out to be a telephone salesman.	b	Oh .

sd	number one, I really feel that that's you know, my own home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and if I want something, I will get it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I never buy anything from a telephone, salesperson.	aa	I wouldn't,

sd	So, I really feel they're invading my time and my space	b	Uh huh.

sd	it really bothers me.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's a little bit like junk mail except you can't, you know, ignore it, quite as easily.	b	Yeah.

sd	but at the same point,	^2	That doesn't always work.

sd	and then I hang up before they can say anything.	bh	really?

sv^e	and it works very well .	b	Oh .

sd	but I just feel that's my thing on invasion of privacy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I wish that there were a way that you could, you know, submit your telephone number to the phone company and have a penalty for anyone who calls you to sell things, from a busi ,	b	Uh huh,

sd	I mean you can't do it for any compan ,	b	Uh huh.

sd	that company is not allowed to sent you any junk mail.	bh	really?

sd	If you get junk mail on a regular basis from any particular company you can,	b	I didn't even know that.

sd	you have to go to the post office and ask them for the form that you fill out not to get, you know, junk mail from specific companies.	ba	wow.

sd	And I wish there were something like that where you can call the telephone company	b	Yeah.

 sd	And then anyone making these calls have to check that registry for that area should, and is not allowed under penalty of, you know, being reported or something to call you.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So that would be one way of doing it.	sd	I can't really think of anything that invades my privacy,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't stand that.

sd	and I wasn't going to be available to be called back.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I'll call later, if I'm available.	b	Yeah.

sd	The other thing that there is recourse to and that's another thing, is when you use your credit card and then they ask for a telephone number.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you do not have to give a telephone number.	bh	really?

sd	And I don't really like announcing in public	 b	Uh huh.

sd	my telephone and I don't like the way telephone numbers can be used.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, we weren't actually able to trace it, but we were able to discard the charges.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it was,	sd	I don't like how they a ,

sd	It was the charge card and social security number.	sd	And, you know, I don't like, I don't ever get anything over the phone because I don't want to give my social security number out.

sd	sometimes I charge theater tickets over the phone.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that was because I initiated it.	b	Yes.

sd	and occasionally I do order things from catalogs over the phone.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	that's a law that went into effect, I don't know a year or two ago.	sd	I never even knew that.

sd	a lot of stores will still ask.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the credit cards company's responsibility.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	well, this is limited to the privacy issue, the invasion of privacy.	bk	okay.

sv	I guess that just comes with the territory with a family that	sd	I really, can't think of any that would invade my privacy you know.

qy^d	any experiences you've had at work?	nn	No.

sd	So many things I think over the years have been, accepted, I mean that are no longer done.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, I mean, that's none of their business.	b	Yeah.

sd	but of course, now by law they can't ask that.	b	Yeah.

sv	So I mean there has been I think a lot done to protect privacy.	aa	Yeah,

qo	How do you feel,	qy^d@	you know, like AIDS and all that stuff? You know, with you know, your sex, you know .

b	Yeah.	 %	they've gotten a lot with,

 qy@	Do you feel that drug testing is an invasion of privacy? Or AIDS testing?	nn	No,

ny	uh huh.	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, I think it's more safety than anything else.

sv	I sometimes feel you know, sometimes individual rights including the right to privacy have to be sacrificed for a greater benefit.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean I do want my pilot to be sober .	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	sd	and it's dangerous.

qy	Do you have a personal computer?	nn	No

b	Uh huh.	sd	I work with them quite a bit though.

sd	I work with them at Kelly Services, doing, data entry.	b	okay.

 qo	what do you think about them?	sv	Well, I think they're useful,

 %	or,	na	Well I think that, some work places where I've been they set up

 b	Uh huh.	sv	without them knowing how to use it properly, it slows them down, more than it helps them accomplish something.

b	Right.	sv	They spend more time messing with the P C than they would actually accomplishing the tasks that they're trying to do if they didn't have a P C at all.

sv	And you really have to be able to type pretty fast you know, before it really saves time.	b	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And you have to, you know, be familiar with it,

b	Uh huh	sv	A lot of times, people know about half of the capabilities of a package that they should know to actually be able to use it properly,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and if they really understood the capabilities of the package they could do that in about, you know, half the time that they spend trying to figure out how to do it without spending the time to learn the package properly.

^2	To set up the boundaries correctly, and how many lines you're going to use in an,	aa	Right,

qh	can't you put, Can't you put it on a disk and then just edit it, if you need to when you go back.	sd	so I've seen that as a problem.

b	Right.	sd	And they set it up manually, so that they have all their spacings and formattings and tabs set manually.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, then when they have to make a change, say they want to insert a paragraph. They got to go through the document and reset all the page breaks manually and rewrite the whole thing instead of having the,

^2	Rewrite the whole thing.	sd	if they had set up the formatting on the system itself, it would do that for them, and save them a lot of time.

qy	Do you end up with very different length lines?	nn	no,

qy^d	And it divides the words by itself?	ng	Usually it doesn't divide words.

bk	okay.	sd	They usually have it space the words in a rather than divide a word.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, you see, like in a newspaper, they typeset.

b	Right.	sd	if one line is going to be a lot shorter than another line, they just add spaces to that line to make it look long as the rest of the lines.

bf	They space it out in the line itself.	aa	Right.

b	Oh.	sd	And most computers do that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've known people that have used a package for five years, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it would take me maybe two or three minutes looking in the manual to figure out what command it was that caused this to happen.

qrr	or it's just that they don't use the materials that are available to them.	no	Sometimes it's,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But some of them, are,

sv	It's better to learn it directly from the manual.	sv	Well, I think so.

sv	Especially when you have to trouble shoot some things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you have to work around it.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	Have you worked mostly on I B M,	na	With P C s they're either I B M or I B M compatible, mostly.

sd	that's a , that's all I've seen in offices, is I B M.	sd	That is you know, the industry standard.

qy^t	Well do you think it's been five minutes yet	na	probably.

fc	Well it was nice talking to you.	fc	Okay.

fc	Thank you.	fc	Bye bye.

qy	are you a T I er?	nn	No,

b	really.	qy	But, are you at T I?

ny	yeah.	qy^d	So you have to do the random drug testing.

qrr	or have you been participating in this?	sd	about ten or eleven calls.

sd	well you've passed me up.	b	Right.

sd	This is about six times.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	sd	It doesn't bother me.

sd	And I think it was tremendously down.	qy^g	As far as the number of drug users, you mean?

ny	Yeah	b	Huh.

sd	But I think that when I was at T I of course, we had all the information before they started.	b	Right.

sv	and then usually a lot of them partake in some of the benefits of rehabilitation and everything.	b	Right,

sd	I don't know what they were.	sd	When I worked for the temporary agency as a permanent person,

b	Yeah.	sd	And we did have a couple of cases where the person said that they hadn't used anything,

b	really.	 +	the second time.

sv	That would be terribly embarrassing for someone to really come back positive	b	Right.

sd	now I'm not in personnel or anything.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's got to be a highly qualified agency.	b	Right,

sd	but it wasn't even in Dallas, you know, the one that did us.	b	really.

aa	Yeah.	qy	Do they have a policy where they counsel people if they come back positive,

sd	and they have an agency where you can go for personal problems, financial or whatever.	b	Right.

sd	and they won't say anything about it.	b	Right.

b	sure.	sd	I know some places just fire people on the spot if they come back positive or something.

sd	You know the classical thing is to give it away.	b	Right.

sd	That's a real worry.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	you know a lot about that.	ny	So yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But most of the time it's they get into the wrong crowd first,

b	Yeah.	sv	It's usually not a one time accidental thing, I don't think.

sd	and one's at home, gets dozen calls a night.	ad	well I'll let you go if you want to go ahead and take that,

sd	she'll be on the phone all night.	b	Yeah,

qy	Do you have children?	nn	No

ba	great,	sd	so we're starting.

sd	and I always say that I've learned so much more from them than I ever taught them.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's a fantastic experience.	sd	we're really excited about it.

b	yeah.	sd	You know, one thing my husband believes is if you suspect your kids are having any kind of problems, he believes you should take your kids in for a random testing, like on a Saturday morning, if they've been out at a party Friday night.

b	Yeah.	sd	If you're not too sure what's going on, he tells parents all the time, haul them into the doctor's office and get them checked.

sv	Have our house as a place where they can come at any time, so that you always see their friends rather than make them not welcome	b	Right.

sd	So we've been lucky that our house is usually the place where the kids could come, you know.	b	Uh huh,

sv	and you always have your house welcome, then your children think that, you know, you're cool parents and all that.	b	Right .

fo	Well good luck with your expected baby there.	ft	well, thanks.

sd	she reminded me to say that they're very cheap until they get to start driving.	b	Uh huh.

sd	As they get older you know, they cost practically nothing from one to five,	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's well worth it and everything.	b	Yeah,

qy^c	You still there?	ny@	Yea. * is this a typo?

sd	You know, I don't have much to say about drug testing.	aa	No,

qy^t	Did you get the booklet on how to get the gifts and all?	nn	No,

sd^t	I just got it a week or so ago saying, you know, so many calls will be something a prize and everything.	b	Right.

qy^t	Was it five dollars a call?	ny	Yeah,

sd^t	Well, hope they follow through and everything.	sd^t	Well technically we're not supposed to talk about the phone calls while we're on them

aa	yeah,	fc	It was good talking to you.

fc	Bye bye now.	fc	Bye.

qy^d	Hopefully you're a basketball fan.	br	Excuse me.

qy^d^r	Hopefully you're a basketball fan.	ny	Yeah,

sd^t	since we're supposed to talk about specific teams, I would like to see them turned back to where the college player plays for four years, and then, they're not semi pro and just go on and are stolen by the, the League, you know, in three years,	b	Uh huh.

sd	plus I'd like to see them to be true athletes where they're taking a regular college course.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	they didn't ask that, but they're talking about college teams,	b	Yeah.

ad	you, if you like sports go right ahead with this one.	sd	well, I know like what you just said,

b	Yeah.	sd	they had to make him sit the bench. And actually kicked him off the team because, his, grades, even though they passed Big Ten standings and they passed, you know, N C double A, did not pass, Purdue requirements.

ba	That's good.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm all for that.	sd	so he was treated like all the rest of students, you know.

ba	That's great.	sd	And so, their very best player,

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, it's just sad

sv	He only has twenty, twenty five, whatever hours he has to spend on practice.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, that's what I mean by semi pro.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think they ought to get rid of that.	sd	That's what happened to this guy.

sd	I like that.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I don't, I don't like the pros at all.	sd	I don't either.

sd	and I don't really get much out of that.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I saw Princeton, I think it was, or Harvard play this year.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it was so funny to watch them play against the other teams,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know if they won very many games.

 sv	but that's so much fun to watch because they're pure amateurs, you know, and there's no money involved.	b	Yeah.

sv	it loses it somewhere.	b	Yeah.

sv	these players, let's face it, ninety percent are being paid.	b	Yeah.

sv	I don't think that college football, or basketball, should have to be semi pro, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	everybody should play, you know.	sd@	I'm kind of racist, I guess, when I say, I like to see the white guys do well, you know . Instead of the run and gun all the time. / * should be two slash units.

sd	Well again, I'd just like to see the true student athlete, play basketball, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't like to see the ones that have no intention of going to class,	b	Yeah.

sd	and that's what I think is a lot of fun.	sv	There's just so much pressure on the schools, I think to win, though, you know.

b	yeah.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I don't know why the don't keep fencing and all that, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I thought it was so that you give them an education of that particular discipline.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know what it was.	b	Really.

qh	Is that all they're going to have to make money, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	But it seems like it is.	ba	It really is.

qy	You went to Indiana University?	sd	Purdue.

b	okay.	b	Yeah.

ba	Well, good.	 %	So.

 qy	you're a T I er up in Sherman?	b	Uh huh.

bk	very good.	qy	Are you from Dallas area?

sd^e	I'm in the facilities there, down here in Dallas.	b	Yeah,

sd	and there's absolutely no money involved whatsoever,	b	Yeah.

sv	and you know they're going to class, you know.	qy	You heard of, Have you heard of Damon Bailey. The I U white guard that plays.

nn	Huh uh.	 sd	Well, last year, when he was in high school, they drew a crowd of like forty one thousand for the state finals, when he played.

sd	I never been in a football game in high school that had that many.	b	Yeah,

sv	of, pro anyway.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	 +	and then give them five minutes to play,

b	Yeah.	sv	Because they start,

^h	can't think of the other one.	sd	Tarpley,

br	Pardon me?	qy	Tarpley?

sd	so, they benefitted tremendously by leaving the Mavericks.	b	Yeah.

sv	he never quite achieved you know, the super stardom that he had in college,	b	Uh huh.

qw	what do you read?	sd	well, I read everything, I guess,

qw	What is your favorite?	sd	well, I like all kinds,

sd	I will get ideas out for my own house and yard and stuff .	b	Uh huh.

sd	I love Pierce Anthony novels.	sd	the novels, yeah.

qy	Figures . What, like those, magazines you get through the mail?	ny	Yeah.

sd	And stuff like that.	qy	you mean the ancient astronauts things?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	I have read some of that.

b	Uh huh.	h	I do not really know that they have the answers in those books.

b	Oh.	sv	But they are very interesting. that, they have, what they have discovered.

sd	I like far out facts or whatever.	b	Yeah.

sd	But I am a superficial buff.	qw^d	You are what kind of buff?

sd	Superficial,	bk	okay.

sd	I do not get too into it.	b	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, I am kind of a hobbyist

b	Yeah.	sd	I am one of those crazy people that reads the directions.

^2	Because you read it .	sd	when she ever there is something, I say, well, have you read the directions?

qy	Are you an engineer for T I?	b	Yeah.

sd	I worked at T I for a little while.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	we have got a book that says, HOW DO THEY DO THAT?	b	Yeah.

sv	And it answers everything.	bh	really?

sd	but a lot of silly little questions.	b	yeah.

sd	Like what makes a firefly light, you know .	b	yeah.

b	uh huh.	sd	But I have not gotten them in years,

b	Yeah.	sd	They have wonderful photographs and just amazing photographs that they have done.

sd	she was not fully blind, just legally blind.	b	Yeah.

sd	and that is the best book to go through, those NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC.	ba	It is.

sd	I love reading about animals.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The gorillas and stuff.	b	Yeah.

sd	That's something moves that slow .	b	yeah.

sv	And it is just weird.	sd	of course, was it all books and things

sv^t	Well, we can talk about anything we want.	b	Yeah.

sd	But like I said, I do not keep up on all that.	sd	Well, I have only been more interested because of things are doing so bad and everything.

b	Yeah.	sd	You always look for things with, with this terrible recession that we are in, to see if there is any go ,

qy^d	With everything going down?	ny	yeah,

sd	I know I heard Bush say that, you know, we are either bottoming out or seem to be.	b	Yeah.

sv	But that is Bush saying that .	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I like Ann Landers .	b	Yeah

sd	I do not go into the details.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	Well, I know at T I they have most of the stuff on the printout, don't they? I mean, on the computer where you can read the daily news?	b	 yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I do get,

sd@	When I worked at T I, I read that more than I read the regular newspaper. Because I would read that every day because you would find ten minutes here that you do not have anything to do.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I know you do, being an engineer.	b	Yeah.

sv	There are some times when you have got ten or fifteen or even an hour off .	b	Yeah.

sd	We had an engineer in there every ten minutes.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, it just encouraged me to read it.	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you can page through it in,

b	Yeah.	sd	I do not read everything on,

sd@	Well, see that is me with the newspaper. Especially financial page.	b	Yeah.

sd	and he is tycoon or something.	b	yeah.

qw	What is his name?	sd	Trump.

sd	I still do not know what the whole deal was with that.	sv	Well, I guess because he was so rich, you know.

b	Oh .	sd	Well, he had a young girlfriend.

qy	He was just having an affair on his wife?	na	Well, that

sv	That has got to be hard to go from really rich to poor. Which I am sure he ain't poor.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd@	And his wife seemed to be very smart. And actually running some of his business.

sd	But I have got three kids .	b	yeah.

sd@	So it is hard to watch T V. Except for Donald Duck.	b	Right,

fc	And have a good holiday.	fc	Right.

qy	Are you in the market for a car recently?	ny	Yeah,

qw	what did you get?	sd	I got a nineteen ninety three Cavalier station wagon.

qw	what convinced you to get that one?	sd	Well, a friend of my father's, he'd driven it all over the country and it runs great.

qw	how many miles on it?	sd	like, it has a hundred and fifty three thousand.

sd	And it's still running real well.	b	Yeah.

 sd	I have, my husband and myself and we have two sons who are drivers one of which is an eighty eight Plymouth Voyager Van,	b	Uh huh.

sd	about a year ago, we picked up a second hand, Audi	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean he was out of the hospital by that night, but the car was completely totalled	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess right now my criteria for cars is, being solid, able to take an impact	 b	Right.

 sd	and, so, we're not going to be in the market in the near future for any new car.	b	Uh huh

sd	Another thing I'd definitely want would be anti lock brakes.	b	Right.

 qy	do you have any particular things that are priorities on your list.	sd	I didn't really need power windows, but it has power, you know, windows and steering and air conditioning,

qy^g	I guess down here air conditioning's a must, isn't it.	ny	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, he's told me it gets forty two miles to the gallon.

ba	That's incredible.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's a powerful car. but it does not,	b	Uh huh.

sd	It comes out around the eighteen or nineteen local driving	b	Uh huh.

sd	power windows are nice, but I don't need them . Although I must say when you're driving in the east and there are all these toll roads, come into a toll road, you just push that button down,	b	Right.

sd	it's real nice for that window to zip down and zip up, instead of having to crank it.	 %	Crank,

 sd	if you're alone in the car just to press buttons, and.	b	Right.

sd	one of the things that we've liked when we gotten a new car, and this used car has it, is a sun roof	b	Uh huh.

sv	and those are really nice in good weather.	ba	That's right.

sd	I'd love to get an air bag and a sun roof, just so it'd be a good solid car.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they, make the car more expensive, but they often add more things to repair when things go wrong.	 b	Right.

 qw	So, if you were to buy a brand new car, what would you look for?	sd	like you said, anti lock brakes and air bag,

sd	the Audi's German, and I have to say, it has been pretty dependable.	b	Uh huh.

sv	sometimes, one advantage of an American made car, is if you get stuck anywhere, most local garages can fix you up.	b	Yeah,

sv	But once you get something fancy, you get stuck somewhere off of the main area you can be really,	b	Right,

sd	and I know the Audi parts are terribly expensive.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know, we certainly have the technology,	b	Right.

sd	I mean, everything is more solid in it.	b	Right.

 sv	you don't feel you've got any of the flabby plastic	 b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't think I have to give up as much as I'm giving up.	b	Right.

qy	But, do you need air conditioning down there?	ny	Yes,

b	Yeah.	sd	because even today it's supposed to get up into the nineties.

sd	we've had eleven days in a row over ninety.	b	Uh huh.

fc	and enjoy your car.	fc	Yeah,

fc	it's going to be a hot one.	fc	Yeah.

fc	bye bye	fc	Bye bye.

sd^t	and what do you see coming in the future.	bk	okay,

sv	Sounds good.	sd	I'm ready when you are.

ad	hold on.	aa	Okay.

qy	Are you there?	ny	Yeah,

ad	hold on.	aa	That's okay.

o	Okay,	o	Okay,

sd^e	I'm twenty three.	bk	okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well then I can tell you that roles have changed.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	and they changed quite a bit.

b	Uh huh.	sd	this was my twentieth high school reunion, in Chicago.

b	Uh huh.	sv	you probably heard that in the fifties women liked to stay home and all that.

 b	uh huh.	sd	That's kind of, the opposite of what it was in the sixties and early seventies.

b	Right.	sv	It was sort of just to go protest,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, just, everybody be damned and live with some one,

b	Uh huh,	 +	social morals were a little bit lacking.

 sv	I know that, in the early seventies, I think women were the first people to make a move as far as individuals.	b	Uh huh.

 sv	before that a lot of people that wanted to protest were large groups like, black people, or, you know, just large, large groups of people,	b	Right

b	Right,	b	yeah.

sv	and you had gay movements, and just the smaller groups of people.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I think since then is when a lot of the women's roles have started to change.	ba	It did

b	Uh huh.	sd	And in terms of the corporate community, I've seen a big change in terms of men finally being quote, unquote, used to women, who are in, controlling positions, in the corporate hierarchy.

b	Uh huh	sv	So I think that's good.

 sv	I think that, you know, you can just look at home life and see, I've been talking to a lot of people about education and things, and what, what affects the school system	 b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think that a big thing that effects it is that the mother is not home anymore, like she used to be.	b	Right.

sv	She used to be kind of a, a rock, you know, in the house,	^2	The mainstay,

sd	And, since everyone is going out and working now, whether it be because of finances or just the economy,	 ^2	and restructuring, stepfamilies,

 sv	but I think that, society's really going to have to get used to it.	 b	Right.

sv	And they're not quite used to it yet	b	yeah.

b	uh huh.	^h	I'm trying to think of what else.

b	Uh huh.	sd	those were the general issues.

sd^t	Speaking of getting married, I was talking to someone yesterday on this, on the project,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I said no, I'm just twenty,	sd	He was ancient,

sd	and I said no, I'm just twenty three, you know, because I don't think of myself as needing to have children	b	Uh huh.

 sd	my mind just went,	 ^2	You didn't know what you're going to be missing.

 sd	because it really didn't, doesn't even occur to me right now to have children,	sd	I don't have any either

sd	I think that I'll probably have children when I'm about thirty, thirty five, something like, just because, I'm not sure if it's just me, or women in general that are twenty three right now, because, I'm really into my career.	b	Yeah,

sd	I'm trying to go somewhere, and, and get there quick and then worry about, you know, because right now, in my career I'm really starting out,	b	Yeah,

sd	and it's going to take me a while to move up.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And I don't need anything kind of holding me back,	b	Right

 b	uh huh.	 sd	I was twenty seven when I got married

b	Uh huh.	sd	He was twenty three when we met

b	Right.	sd	but I didn't have to have male companionship.

b^r	right.	 sd	and a lot of the, friends that I had in school at that point, who had gone back and gone to law school, or M B A programs,

 b	Uh huh.	 +	which I also had done, you know, they were very sad. it seemed like they were on their second or third around the marriage track.

b^r	yeah,	sv	So, I guess that's a big change in terms of, just, the attachments that women feel like they need to have, the dependency, their self identity is stronger.

sv	it's just really not there anymore.	b	Yeah.

sv	And that has to do with, you know, the women getting out and other women seeing other women, you know, out in the corporate world.	 b	Right.

 sd	She's, she's about forty.	b	Okay,

 b	Uh huh.	b	No,

b	Okay.	sv	nobody talks about it for women except other women and other men.

sd	I just turned twenty three, April twentieth,	b	Uh huh.

sd	because me, myself, I just like to move really, really quickly.	b	Yeah,

sd	I'm, you know, I'm working quick.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I want to retire quick.	b	Yeah.

 sd	i , when the age creeps up, where I'm twenty three and twenty four,	 b	Uh huh.

 sd	but I'm actually very, very young.	 aa	Yeah,

 b	Uh huh.	 sv	and what you'll find is,

 b	Uh huh.	sv	but this is probably typical of the women's movement too, is the idea that you're going to be forty tomorrow anyway, if you want to go back to school.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm seriously considering going back to school for law.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's still is a different application.

b^r	yeah.	sv	And I mean, so when you're saying quick, I think that's probably one thing that your generation coming up after mine, is thinking that, they have to do everyth , you know, sort of, I call it a chewing syndrome.

b	Right.	sv	They have to eat real fast

ba	exactly.	sv	they have to just go through everything.

ba	Exactly.	sv	And you'll find that probably by the time your twenty eight, thirty, if you haven't slowed down, something will slow you down.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Do you know what I'm saying?

ny^r	yeah,	sv	because it's just, you find out that you're really not, smelling the roses,

sv	I know, I'm probably feeling that way because everything's geared towards young. You know	b	Uh huh.

sv	and whether I want to realize it or not, everything on television is young, young, young, young.	ba	it is.

sv	and, y , everybody that's in the music business is starting out at fifteen.	ba	That's right.

sd	and I would really love to become, a professional singer,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I think I'm too old now,	bd	you're not,

sd	and I'm twenty three,	ar	No.

sd	because everyone I've seen coming up, they're fifteen. You know,	ba	That's true

sd(^q)	and I, I really have to always tell myself, no, you're not, you're very young.	aa	No,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, it's just individual choices.

b	Yeah.	sd	I stopped comparing myself a long time ago to somebody who had,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, he just turned forty,

ba	Wow.	sd	I mean that's like your mother,

b	Right.	sv	but what you find is you don't compare the woman, because you just get into trouble.

ba	very true.	sd	but what I was going to say about mothers is, your mother probably just won't say it,

b	Uh huh.	^q	you went to school,

b	uh huh.	^q	you can do this,

b	Uh huh.	^q	we couldn't do that then.

sd	I can do anything I want to do, anything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, and I get so depressed not because I can't find a job, but because I can't figure out what I want to do.	bd	And that's normal,

sd(^q)	and I'm lucky though, because not a lot of people can sit there and go gee, I don't know what to do.	b	Right

sv	not a lot of people,	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's depressing too.	sd	That's how, I mean, What, I'm right now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm a free lance writer right now.

b	Oh.	sd	And then, what I'm doing is working at, an electronics company, for their company newspaper, right now on the side,

b	Oh.	sd	and then I'm also,

sd	I'm a news reporter, now,	bh	you are?

sd	and I've been looking for something exactly like that jus ,	sv	Here's what you shoul ,

b	okay .	 qy	Did you go to Baylor by any chance?

sd^e	I went to U T at Austin.	bk	okay,

sd	And I just happen to work at a Waco station, because you know.	sd	I went to,

sd	broadcast news, T V,	sd	my journalism degree is in,

sv	Well, I don't know if there's going to be solutions to the U S budget.	sv	Well, now it's in pretty disastrous shape for sure.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's only getting worse exponentially it seems.

sv	but, I know that state has, cutback, raises for a year to help, the, state financial or whatever you might want to say to get better in a better condition.	b	Uh huh.

sd	State of Minnesota.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean everybody's doing it so it isn't like, private business has had to do it	b	Uh huh.

sv	so it might have to be something that they might consider doing that's got to be very short term.	b	Right.

sd	As for instance, I think you probably remember the military getting caught, with toilet seats that cost them four hundred, five hundred dollars.	b	Yep.

sv	so. So it gives you a , idea that,	b	Yeah.

b^r	sure.	sv	I mean there was, people at Stanford who were soaking the government, you know, using millions of dollars of research money for the President to buy beach homes or whatever it was.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that maybe more widespread than well, than we'd like to have think.

b	Sure.	sd	but then it's something that's hard to enforce too I'm sure.

sd	when you think about people, taking vacations these big government officials taking descendants in congress.	b	Uh huh.

sv	The rest of them taking these vacations and using the taxpayers' money for that.	b	Right.

sv	And it's a real big crunch,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, during that time I'm sure there's hundreds of, thousands of people that are, spending money that does not belong to them.	ba	Well, that's right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I'm not sure that that's really that much of the problem.

b	Sure.	sd	I mean when you look at something like the Gulf War it cost us God knows how much. You know, at a million dollars, a pop for patriot missiles.

sd	I mean it gave people jobs	b	Yeah.

sv	but after that you know, they didn't want to do it anymore.	b	Right.

h	So I don't know.	b	Uh huh.

fc	and have a good evening.	fc	Okay .

fc	thanks.	fc	Bye bye.

qy^t	do we just go ahead?	ny	Uh huh.

bk	Okay.	qy^t	Do you want to start?

na^t	well, we're supposed to talk about vacations	b	Right.

sd	and probably the one I liked most was Hawaii .	qy	did you get to go to Hawaii?

ny	Yes.	b	Yeah,

sd	We went, six months after we were married.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we just went to, two islands.	qw	What islands did you go to?

 sd	We went to Oahu and Kauai.	sd	Kauai,

^2	The big one.	b^m	the big one,

b	Oh.	sv	With, the big one I thought was very commercialized.

sv	It was.	sv	But the other two were just lovely.

sd	I enjoyed Kauai better, too.	b	Uh huh,

sd	it was rainy .	b	Yeah

sd	but, you know, we don't like to spend the money to go over there and sit on the beach anyway	b	That's right.

bh	really?	aa	Uh huh.

bk	Oh.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	qy	Did you go there?

ny	Uh huh.	sv	That was wonderful

b	Yeah.	sd	and we both enjoyed it very much.

sd	You know, I've been to Nassau, too.	bh	Have you?

sd	I went on a cruise.	ba	neat.

sd	and, to tell you the truth, I think I'd rather just go to the island.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, I, got sick.	bh	did you?

sd	I went with my sister just, a couple years ago	b	Ooh.

sd	it was a four day	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we were both ready to get off the boat.	bh	Were you?

ny	Yeah.	sd	Well, I think if we ever go, it will only be for a three day.

bh	have you?	ny	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sv	It is just absolutely gorgeous with the mountains

b	I'll bet it is.	sd	and we were there in the fall before the snows, you know, started

b	Oh.	sd	And we would love to go back there

qy	You haven't been to Spain?	nn	No

b	Oh.	sd	have not been to Spain.

sd	I was born there.	bh	Were you?

ny	Yes .	qw	How old were you when you left?

sd	just ten months.	b^m	ten months,

b	Yeah,	qy	Have you ever got to go back?

sd^e	and I would like to.	bh	Would you?

b	Huh.	sd	And, I would like to go to Ireland.

bh	Would you?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	Now, now I don't know if I'd like to go there just from the the problems.	b	uh huh,

b^r	yeah.	sd	I would love to go there.

ba	That would be nice.	sd	And, course, there is a lot of places in the United States I still want to you know, go to.

sd^r	Yellowstone,	ny	Yes,

qy	Have you?	na	We have been there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they loved it.

b	uh huh.	sd	So, you know, I've touched on that.

sd	now I'm just about, a half hour, north of Salt Lake.	b	Oh.

sd	my husband works in Salt Lake,	b	Uh huh.

sd	we're real close	sv	Now that's a pretty city.

sd	we like it.	sd	Very clean. You know.

sd	It is.	sd	Utah is a pretty state from what I remember of it.

sd	Well, we kind of like it .	b	Uh huh

qy	Well, do you like to camp, those kind of trips?	nn	no,

qy	you like the motels?	na	We like the motels,

bh	did you?	sd	And we did a lot of camping out there in the Smokeys

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it's hot down here

b	Oh.	sd	so, and then the kids were getting older and were involved in activities so the camping sort of went by the wayside. And, although our son loves to fish

b	Huh.	sd	and our daughter and her husband are talking now about starting camping with their boys now that they have gotten older.

 sd	wow, I don't know what that was.	qw	What was that?

sd	I don't know .	sd	And, to, the Brazos River near Dinosaur Valley State Park.

b	yes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and in Texas that is where we camp basically.	qo	What are they like?

sd	And, it was just a really nice place to camp.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But Tyler, we sort of got spoiled with, I think.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	So I guess we just kind of came by it naturally .	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you have a large tent	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	b	Uh huh.

qw	And how many does it sleep, comfortably?	sv	Well, there, well supposedly,

b	Right .	sd	it would have slept three adults anyway.

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah.

sd	That really gave us a lot more floor space and, so, you did not have to be constantly getting things off the floor in order to walk around	b	Right.

sd	A little more, luxurious, so to speak, but not much .	qy	do they have a kitchen in them?

sd	and you did not have to be hauling things out of the trunk of you car,	^2	Trunk of your car all time, right.

qy	So, do you have plans for any other camping trips in the near future?	na	maybe back to Caddo, or, Purdis Creek.

 b	Right.	 sd	Or, I like Bob Sandlin too,

 b	Uh huh.	sd	And there is, not really camping,

b	Right.	sd	Lake Joe Pool.

 b	yes.	sd	And sometime, I like to go to Eisenhower up on Lake Texoma.

qy	do you have a favorite among all those that you have been to?	^h	from those three,

qy	is it true that Caddo Lake is the only natural lake in the State of Texas?	ny	Yeah,

sd	and I would love to see what it looks like .	sd	it's not very deep.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they did build a dam on it,

b	I see.	sv	Apparently, an earth quake caused it.

ba	How interesting.	b	Yeah.

sd	And so, we thought we might take some weekend trips and maybe that would be a good place to go to and see what it looks like.	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	h	And I don't know,

sv	when the trees start blossoming out and everything it is really very pretty,	 b	Right.

fc	So, well, I have enjoyed talking with you.	fc	It was nice talking to you.

fc	Hope you get to those places you have talked about.	fc	Yeah,

fc	thanks.	fc	Bye,

qy	so are you prepared to talk?	b	Okay.

co^t	Let me push.	aa	Okay,

sd	I don't know of any other state, does not have a state income tax	b	Right,

sd	for instance, the local, sales tax is eight and a quarter percent.	b	wow.

qw	What do you have there?	sd	we have a six percent sales tax.

qy	And you have state income tax also?	ny	Yes.

sv	I think eventually they're going to have to do it	b	Uh huh.

qrr	or how do you feel about that?	sd	I don't mind my taxes as much as my social security.

b	really	ny	Yeah,

b	uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	Yes.	h	But, I don't know,

sd^e	we do have tax on clothes.	sd	That's what I thought.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know a lot of kids, like going to college with me, that lived in New York or out of state, a lot of them would buy their clothes in Pennsylvania just for the simple sake of not paying that,

sd	I guess I didn't realize that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we don't have tax on groceries, for instance,	b	No,

sd	It's the consumable food parts that, you know, we don't have to pay tax on.	b	Yeah.

sv	it's just eight and a quarter just seems like an awfully lot of tax on any sale, as far as I'm concerned,	b	Yeah,

sd	and she was saying as the years have gone on, there are fewer and fewer things that people can, take off of their income tax.	bf	Deduct, yeah.

sd	And, you know, if you're not a home owner, or if you haven't sold property, or, have something major like that, it's hardly, you know it's just not much else you can do,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she said it's really taken the fun out of doing taxes for people for her, because she used to be real creative about helping them find ways of, you know, accumulating receipts.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Can't do, really can't do it any more.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I graduated with a finance degree,

qw	Where did you go to school?	sd	Clarion University.

sd	I'm a graduate student having gone back after many years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	nevertheless, I am a student, and poor .	b	Yeah,

sv	I guess, as far as people like, our family, we can feel like sometimes we pay more than our share as middle class Americans with college age students, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess as you say, you just have to look around and decide that most of the other people that you know are paying about what you are,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because it seems like, they still come out okay	 b	Yeah,

 +	you know.	 sv	you know, they always have the argument, Well, you know, well who's to say we don't work harder to get that you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	well I don't care how much they take off of you, you know

b	Uh huh.	sv	you're still going to be above, on top,

sv	it seems like, they must feel like they're paid for all of the years of experience or something, or just the title, sometimes 	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I think that's a lot of luck and a lot of gambling, and not a whole lot of work .	 aa	I agree with you.

 b	Right.	h	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then the more I think about it, the more I think, I'm paying in to something that I,

b	Right.	sv	but I'm never going to see that.

ba	Probably not.	sv	Social Security is going to be gone before I ever get any.

sv	or what's left is not going to be worth anything you know, in terms of how, you can actually use it.	b	Uh huh.

b	right.	sv	I'm sorry,

sd	I mean, for a while there, not too long ago, they were saying that the whole system was going to be bankrupt you know, before very long, because so much was going out for programs it wa , that originally it was never intended to be used for. Or, you know, programs just weren't in existence	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	but if you have talked about that in your classes, you know, in the last few years, I'm sure that you have heard,	ny	yeah.

sv	but, I guess, you know, you have to be sort of,	b	Yeah,

sv	you have to appreciate, yeah, what you do get for them sometimes	sv	you have decent roads at least .

sd	I'd rather be able to control my money as much as I do with what's left over taxes than to live in, England or, some countries where so much of it is socialized that you don't see any of that money at all	b	Uh huh.

 sv	and, so, you know, I guess it's all relative,	b	Uh huh,

ba	That's exactly right.	sd	instead of thinking how much, you know, that I'm paying out, I like to just look at it and say well everyone else is doing it too, you know.

ad^t	You want to go first? .	sv^t	Well, I believe that the voice, that, initialized this call asked about, if we thought that it should be something that should be put into action.

sv^t	like should the government make it universal or something like that.	aa	Yes,

qy^d	you would be in favor of it?	na	definitely.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I know that there are many countries that, are very successful with the operation of the government, providing that plan.

qy	Do they have options on you know, like choices of doctors and that type of thing?	no	I'm not sure how their program is run,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I would really have to, read the history of, the country that has fared very well with it,

sv	and if you didn't have any choice you know, in who you go to,	aa	Yes,

sd	It took that long.	b	Yes,

sv	I don't know how that program works, you know, if you can do that.	sv	Well, I would think that they would have that as part of the benefit to the health care program, that you would indeed have a choice that you could select that individual yourself.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I'm sure that they would have a history of each doctor, and hopefully that they would have their, accreditations there too.

sv	I guess that's primarily was one of my thoughts, you know, because, you know how government is .	aa	Yes,

sv	For them to have a choice on if they're in favor of it or not.	b	Uh huh,

sv	it would.	sv	And of course they would give a full plan of what their intentions would be,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	I'm not sure what else that, we could address, on health care, other than the fact, I think, the eyes and the ears and the, whole self should be, included in all of that.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	dental, eye care, and, our body as a whole should be included in that because there are so many avenues that needs to be, undertaken in a program like that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I wouldn't want to have to go for a private doctor for anything and not be covered by the program.

sd	or they can choose one that their company has elected	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that costs them less if they take the doctor that the company has selected.	qy	And does he have an option if he doesn't care for the personality?

ng	Well, only to the point that he could go to somebody at his own expense.	bk	I see .

sd	He took the less expensive one of course.	sv	Well, if he's pleased with it, I guess that's, the bottom line.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	So, but I would be afraid of what would happen if you had a personality conflict or something.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

sd	cause that's the first I've really known anybody that, you know, works for somebody that they had that option, you know, to make the choice of what kind of hospitalization they wanted to take.	b	Uh huh.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I'm very thankful that I'm not under any doctor's care .

sv	You really are,	b	Yes.

sd	we live in a rural area up here.	b	Uh huh,

qy	are you familiar with any of the area that all?	na	Well, I have a brother that lives there .

qw	Where? .	sd	near, Philadelphia.

sd	But we live in Clarion County.	b	Okay.

sd	we have a cousin that lives in Philadelphia,	qy	Are you a native Pennsylvanian?

ny^r	uh huh.	bk	Okay,

b^r	uh huh.	aa	Yes it is,

sv	So I suppose really our situation here is even different that it is in, you know, like more populated areas as far as, the doctors that are available .	b	Uh huh,

sd	We've had some of the most outstanding doctors in our area for some of the different fields.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, we've been pretty fortunate.	sv	That has broadened so much also.

b^r	yeah.	sv	That is, the fields that, you know, are opening up are, just phenomenal.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	I mean, look at the AIDS, case you know, I mean that's a whole new field in itself.

b	yeah.	sv	it's an auto immune deficiency

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it sure is a dilly one.

sv	I still wish they could do more with the cancer situation, though.	aa	Yes,

sv@	I know they're making progress, but not like, that I would like to see, yeah.	bf@	To eradicate it entirely, yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	Well, there's guidelines that people have to follow,

sv	and it doesn't seem to matter.	ba	That's true, too.

sv	Well, they say second hand smoke and that, is worse than smoking .	b	Yeah.

qh	so, what do you do, you know?	sv	Well, you just have to ban the smoking to their to their little room that they want to,

sd	so I haven't ever had that problem, as far as that goes.	b	Uh huh,

sd	So I can't take any credit for not smoking even.	sv	Well, it's a bad habit tha ,

sv	it's a hard one to quit.	aa	Yes.

fc	and you have a good day.	fc	And, well, you do the same.

fc	Right .	fc	Okay,

sv	what causes the most air pollution is probably the car	ba	Probably so,

sv	and, whether or not, they'll ever get into like huge transit systems into big cities where people would all travel on a high speed, train or something like that	aa	Yeah,

sd	and that's what we're finding, here, where we're at, in Minneapolis area, is that people don't want to carpool that there are inconveniences to that,	b	Uh huh.

sv	so it's kind of a thing where, I think the majority of the people do not carpool.	aa	I think so too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and very few people carpool

b	Yeah.	sd	the people that I know don't want to because, they never know for sure what time they're going to leave their job

aa	Exactly.	sd	they never know when they want to run out and do an errand at noon, you know, they just feel they need their car.

sv	or if somebody gets sick, and it's not the other person and they want to go home, and that one person's got the car then they're stuck,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you're definitely right,	ba	That's right.

o@	so, * slash error Yes, / * slash error	sv	And people don't want to give it up

sd	that happens quite a bit,	sv	but, you know, I don't guess we can get away from it a hundred percent

sd	other than that, I don't know,	sd^c	Well, my other line is ringing

b	Okay.	ad^c	but we're going to ignore it .

ad^t	we'll try to be real quick here.	fa^c	I'm sorry for these beeps,

qw^d^t	The other thing then is, because I don't know how long they want us to talk,	sd^t	close to five minutes, I believe.

b^m	Five minutes, okay.	qy^d	And you're in Minneapolis,

na	Minneapolis area,	qy	Well, is the pollution really bad up there?

sv	the only problem that we have and that's all over the whole world is ozone and of course hay fever season	b	Uh huh.

sv	but those are natural	b	Yeah

sd	and they just put in a strict law that as of every year when you get your license tabs you have to have your car inspected to see if it's releasing any, lead into the air or other pollutants,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and if that's the case, then you have to get your car fixed,	sd	Well that's the way it has gotten here.

b	yeah,	sv	but, I think it's a good idea because a lot of people still want to drive the older cars which you can't blame them for that

b^r	sure,	sv	and, but if they are polluting the air, they do need to have them fixed

aa	Exactly,	sd	and you know, there's a big move, especially in the industrial part in Texas right now of controlling the C F C s that the big manufacturing companies are producing into the air they're having to change the type of products they use

b	Uh huh.	sd	like, I have a friend that's in the air conditioning heating business

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they have to pay a penalty for every ounce or pound of this certain type of freon that they use in the air conditioning systems

b	Sure.	sd	therefore, the individual, every time they have a service call, if they have an old unit that's still using this twenty two freon or whatever it costs them three times as much to get it fixed

b	Sure.	sd	and, if you have a new high efficiency system that uses the new type of freons that do not release as many C F C s into the atmosphere it doesn't cost as much so eventually people are going to have to go to newer systems, you know,

sv	the other thing when you're talking about freon with cars, air conditioning, I'm sure over there it's a necessity versus something up here we can live without it	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's uncomfortable	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I don't know if there was something wrong with it, or his directions weren't quite fully instructed onto that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I was thinking how many other people	sv	It's probably happened to millions of people,

sv	because if you take it into a service station, they want to charge you forty dollars just for, freon, which only costs you about three dollars	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	so I have this feeling that freon probably will increase in price because it is something that people will have to take into consideration and say, Hey, that's that's right there.	b	Uh huh

sd	I think it's like three or four dollars a can	b	Yeah.

sd	and my husband even was kind of woozy after that because I'm sure he breathed it	^2	Inhaled so much of it,

o@	and, * slash error Uh huh. / * slash error	b	Yeah,

sd	Mainly, if I'm really wanting an in depth thing I'll watch C N N.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I find it one of the best.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, otherwise it's just one of the regular, channels eight or five.	b	Uh huh.

qw	And, where do you get yours?	sd	mostly from T V too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we do take the DALLAS MORNING NEWS

sd	and my husband, he reads it cover to cover.	b	Uh huh.

h	and, I don't know	b	Uh huh.

sd	and if I wanted to read, I wanted to read something light and relaxing and and, things like that	b	Yeah.

 sd	and it got so depressing .	b	Yeah

sv	Seems like it wasn't anything but bad news .	b	Yeah.

sd	but I find that I do better with, remembering it and everything if I watch, the T V you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	and they kind of capsize it and everything	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think sometimes it's, you know maybe a little biased, you know	b	Right.

sv	and sometimes. you get the sensationalism as opposed to just pure facts.	b	Yeah.

o@	Yes. Yes. * should be two slash units You found some members of your church that had been murdered?	sv	and with interest, you know I found some people that were members of our church which was different.

b^m	the same type of church.	b	Uh huh.

b^r	uh huh.	b	Yeah,

 b^r	uh huh.	sv	So that was interesting,

sd	or I didn't used to	b	No.

sd	when my grandchildren have stayed over before and even maybe when our kids were younger one of the channels used to give brief inserts of news at a child's level.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Like they brought down something that had happened like if there was something going on, in the war, they would bring it down to a child's level in words you know, that they could understand what was going on.	b	Huh.

sd	The oldest one he's nine	b	Right.

sd	been a couple of years ago.	b	Yeah.

sd	Actually I even understood it better .	b	Yeah,

sd@	I have kind of a blas3e attitude about, news and news reporting which is not good, you know. / * typo in word 8	 b	Right.

sv	Nobody should get that way about the news. And what's going on in the world.	b	Right.

sd	We like channel eight.	bh	Do you?

sv	It's the best.	sd	channel five for some reason has always been the one I watch.

b	Uh huh.	no	I don't know

sd	channel nine watching it when the murders were in Killeen	b	Uh huh.

 sd	They were having news coverage	qy	The C N N, is that what that is?

sd^e	it was channel nine.	b	Huh.

sd	And, you know they have that hour that nine to ten of an evening.	b	Oh.

sv	and the difference in coverage was unbelievable.	b	Yeah.

sd	I can understand you know, why they're kind of behind.	b	Yeah.

qy	Did I say channel nine to begin with?	ny	Yeah

ar	No, chan , channel eleven I meant.	sd	I don't get that channel .

sd	I was thinking nine to ten.	b	Yeah,

sd	But channel eleven,	sv	That is if you want to go to bed early

qy	do you have an opinion on that, on the U S R?	sd	I think I'm skeptical about the whole thing. and still a little bit worried about them because of the history of Russia.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they're in a state of flux right now e , changing a great deal primarily because of the economic distress.

b	Sure.	sv	And even in that situation, it seems like to me from what I've read in the history of Russia and you know different authors, there has always been a paranoia .

b	Sure.	sv	and that's why they put a lot of people to death.

b	that happens.	b	Yes,

sv	from what I've been hearing is the U S, S R has been, almost bankrupt for years	b	Yeah.

sv	But I don't think the U S would get involved with it because, there's too close of ties to where I think they understand that Gorbachev is trying to make a change, and that we cannot run them like we run the U S and that they have to make their own independent decision.	b	Sure.

sv	I, I have no feelings that they would ever start a war with us because to them you know, it would totally destroy their whole country because our technology is far advanced from what theirs is at this current time.	b	Yeah.

sv	But if you get the Iraqis and Iran which will do it for the country for the pleasure of, you know, doing whatever, for their country, they'll do it.	b	Yeah,

b	Sure.	sd	You know I think that it would be the leadership that I, mistrust.

fc	and you have a good weekend.	fc	You too.

fc	Bye now.	fc	Bye bye.

ad	Scott, let's, talk about advice that we can offer a parent where the child is going to go to a university	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have three boys.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they're all quite young	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you have any kids?	nn	No,

sd	So I imagine you've gone through the experience yourself of selecting your college your own college.	aa	Yeah.

qw	what do you use as a basis to determine which college or university you go to?	sd	Well , I have used, several techniques depending on what,

b	Uh huh.	sd	when I wanted to go to an undergraduate institution, I was looking for something that was, you know, rather small and easy to get around, you know. And what I thought would be easy to get through.

bf	what you thought,	aa	Yeah

^2	Just the degree itself.	aa	yeah,

sd	Well, that's, that's good, because I did quite a bit the same thing in my undergraduate work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I wanted to get a school that was small enough, that was personable that you didn't have a lecture, hall with about fifteen other students competing for the professor's attention	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, but I felt that I got a pretty good, undergraduate,	qw	where did you go?

sd	I went to Utah State University which is in Logan, Utah	bk	Okay.

sd	and well known at least there in the State of Utah and around the surrounding states and so forth.	b	Uh huh.

sv	like you mentioned before, the name the college and university can give you and another reason why I chose that was the finances.	b	Yeah.

sd	I wanted to make sure that I would be able to afford it, that I wouldn't get through three years of the undergraduate work and have to leave.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, so I did a lot of talking with friends, with family with, counselors at high school, and also read some books on the subject at the library.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it was kind of unusual because my two older brothers and I all went to three different universities, depending on what our choice was.	b	Right.

sd	and I felt very comfortable and good about that.	b	Uh huh.

ng	I don't think so.	b^m	No.

sd	the way that tuition is increasing, exponentially it's, it's kind of hard to set aside money and have that money grow at the same pace that the college tuition is increasing.	b	Yeah.

sv	And that your children can use the benefits of that university.	aa	Yeah

sd	So my parents stressed that we get excellent grades so that we apply and try for scholarships	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, scholarships were very beneficial in my case to help pay for my education, because my parents couldn't.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And what the scholarship could not supply I was able to work for and and save and, and get.	b	Yeah.

sd	and he's working to pay those off.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, the student loans are good options.	b	Yeah.

qo	what's been your voting experience?	br^m	My voting experience?

qy	Well, do you feel like,	sd	I, well, personally I've been very diligent until recent years. When I felt my vote was absolutely kind of washed down the drain.

b	Yes.	sd	For the issues you know, that I felt really strong for, I think apathy has set in to a lot of people because of the way our politicians are and the way our country is being run.

sd	but, I have felt since I've been here that I haven't known what the issues were because it was a new community.	sv	You really do have to study to get yourself, up to par with what is truly going on

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that takes a lot of research

aa	It does.	sv	and and that is an excuse because we are always, invo ,

b	Yes.	sd	I know I'm heavily involved in other things

b	Uh huh.	sd	and to take time out and, study the issues in depth would take quite a bit of time

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I don't have the time to devote to that

b	No.	sv	and, you hopefully find you want the candidates that are running to be honest and aboveboard.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And unfortunately they are not.

b	No.	sv	And, it's really a dilemma, that we find ourselves in, I believe.

b	Right.	sd	So I kind of just have taken a back step away and, hopefully that someone will clean up the mess that's there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	because it is a task that is, to me, kind of overwhelming.

sv	and, I also feel, especially in the presidential elections that, since we're back on the old system of electoral votes or that, and that your vote doesn't necessarily elect president.	b	Right,

b	Right	b	Yeah.

sv	and, I'm glad that that happened and everything	b	Yes.

sd	but I haven't done that so far.	sv	Well, I know that when you're in a smaller community,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, when we have, a local election, say for our mayor and so forth they really, give a lot of information in the local newspaper, not in the bigger city Dallas newspaper,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, they just give it a small portion of the newspaper,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then they raise a, they raise two sides

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, you can really, feel comfortable in, evaluating that, candidate by, that method.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I feel pretty confident about the way it's put forth.

b	Right.	sv	I mean, they've got people that are running that are admitted, criminals and admitted crooks.

b^r	Right.	fa	You know, I'm sorry,

b	Right.	sv	And, without the Lord, they can't do it.

o	Okay.	o	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So maybe we need to have more prisons or use the old army bases and make them into prisons or something.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's definitely a big concern,

b	Yeah.	sv	So it's pretty scary.

sd	and I can't say that there's too much of that there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I know the bigger cities have problems with it.	b	Yeah.

h	I really don't know what we can do about it.	b	Yeah.

sv	Unless they start enforcing the,	sv	It's rough, because ,

sv	That's the only thing I can think of.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That would be one thing that, you know, I think could help is having the laws be changed so that they were more stiff penalties and more automatic penalties, you know, for certain crimes .

 b	Yeah.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	I, I don't know what they're going to do with the problem because it just keeps getting worse and worse.	b	Yeah.

na	I'm a senior at Clarion University.	bk	okay.

sv	Well, not only that, a lot of them's not even turned in.	sd	And they don't really,

qy	You know,	ba	Wow.

sd	but I can't say that I've heard of, you know, any significant amount.	b	Yeah.

sv	but then again like you don't know how many girls are reporting them or not.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	ba	That's awful.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So that's probably something else they could do.

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know,

sv	See, you see now I would say that that's a bigger problem up here than even the date rape or anything.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I, I would say that's a bigger problem.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it's definitely got to do with crime.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They said, some of the statistics show like one out of every ten babies being born in these public hospitals are addicted to crack,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I don't know who's the victim there.

aa	No, I don't either.	b	Yeah.

nn	No.	bk	Okay.

sv	and something's going to have to be done sooner	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know what they can do.	b	Yeah,

fc	It was nice talking to you.	fc	Have a good day.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye, bye.

ad	you want to tell me first how you feel about the proposal,	sv	Well I just think the way that things are going that, it would be good for young people to go ahead and dedicate themselves to at least something.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I know, like the Mormon religion, you know, they require two years of missionary service

sd	The boys	aa	right,

sd	not the girls, the boys.	b	yeah,

sv	but I did not think it would be good that they all do something like the Peace Corps because not all young people would have, what it takes to go like that because I think it takes a certain person to be able to do something like that,	b	Yeah.

sv	but there's a lot of other public service things that could be done.	b	sure.

b	Right.	 +	and alcohol and just, helping old people, and, you know, helping cripple, just helping somebody else

b	yeah.	sv	and I think that art of giving is something that, we don't have very much any more.

qw	why, why did they call it a proposal,	sd	I think they just gave it a title

b	Uh huh.	sd	but is this not something that's, in legislation or in work some

sd	That's what I wondered.	b	yeah,

sv	It'd be good character builder.	aa	I think so, too.

b	Uh huh.	sv	they don't even have a direction to give their time to,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it'd be really good I think.

sd	Well, people that have received sentences in jail, they have to go out and do public service activities which to me is good.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, I think sometimes it gives you a better picture of what some of the other people live like, you know, what what some of the other parts of the world are like or even other parts of the neighborhood some of the people, how they live	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sv	because that's one thing that's hard, with young people, you can't tell them how things are	b	Right.

sv	they have to see for themselves	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't know what their thought is on what age that this should be done.	b	yeah,

sv	Of course they've already gone through the period of time where they need more direction you know, their teenage years and that they really sometimes need a little better direction to go and something,	b	Uh huh.

sv	course now Peace Corps, that couldn't be done of course, until they were done with school so, * should this be it's own slash unit?	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	o	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, you know, having that, gung ho plan that's, you know, setting their life goals.

sv	Kind of an in between time.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But as for its being required you know, we're not based on that, type of a system.

sv	but not all certainly would be geared to, even the Mormon boys that go out, not all of them go,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean it's disaster if they don't go,	b	Right.

sv	but but some of them are not,	b	right.

sv	they're just not made to do that type of thing	b	Uh huh,

sv	and they just aren't able to do it.	b	Yeah,

qw	So, how do we fix the national budget?	sd	Damned if I know.

nd	Well,	sv@	I, I suspect we should probably have an independent auditing agency go in and look at how the government spends money. And work from there. because I don't think they're very good at it.

sv	The true source of the problem is, that we do spend too much,	b	Yes.

sv	but also, that we don't take in enough.	b	Yeah,

sv	If more Americans were working and meaningful good paying labor, and paying taxes, and the tax structure was fair between the lowest and the highest income Americans, then we would have more money there to play with.	b	Yes.

b	Right.	ba	So, you're right.

sv	but, in fact, in some cases that's what we ought to do.	bk	okay.

sv	Not Reaganomics, thank you.	sv	But, that's not going to work,

sd	what I was thinking more along the lines of is start going to space.	qy^d	And that way just create more jobs or whatever?

na	Well, at some point there will be enough jobs for most of the able bodied Americans.	ba	, well, that's a neat idea.

sv	We also need to, assure that there's some work in the private sector.	b	Yeah,

sv	But I think we should also do something rather radical.	qw^d	Like what?

sd	Legalize marijuana.	qy	you think that would, have a major effect?

br	What?	sv	that might have a good effect on, on crime anyway.

sv	I think it would reduce the amount of carry on drug use where people advance from one drug to another.	ba	That's probably true.

sv	I think most importantly it would give the federal government something new that they could tax.	sv	And probably a lot of.

sv	and really receive some revenues from.	b	Yeah

 sv	if you look at prohibition historically, it's repeal helped the federal government a lot in tax revenues.	b	Uh huh,

sv	Then I think once we put money back in the coffers of the federal government, and get the federal government to where there's money there again, we should reduce the amount of money,	b	Uh huh.

sv	in some cases we do pay more, for welfare recipients to live then they can earn in the true minimum wage environment.	ba	That's true often times they are paid more, yeah.

sv	And you can't deny people the right to supply their families better through whatever means.	b	Right.

sv	That's just sensible on their part.	br	That's just what on their part,

sv^r	It's just sensible on their parts, to go after the, the greater amount of income.	bk	Oh.

sv	So, if you lower the amount they make and raise the amount of true minimum wage jobs, not those that are affected by the federal minimum wage, then more people will get off welfare.	b	that maybe true.

sv	You know, give them a true incentive to want to work.	b	Right.

sv	And then don't start letting more outsiders in for a few years until we figure out exactly where we're at with unemployment.	b	Right,

sv	Reduce immigration, or eliminate it entirely for a few years, until we get our own house in order.	b	Yeah,

aa^r	absolutely.	sv@	I mean . We don't need to buy other people's stuff right now . * new slash unit after the first period?

sv	I think we ought to just tax them severely.	b	Right,

sv	It seems only fair.	b	Right,

sv	And I think really if we got all those that are able bodied into the work force reduced the amount going out for those purposes, created new jobs for that work force, there would be plenty of money.	aa	I think so.

sv	And then at that point, quit spending on space.	b	Yes.

 sv	Force it all into the private sector.	sd	really I love the switch.

sd	space was just a convenient place for me to go because that would put a lot of, a lot of	b	Right.

sd	Millspec and NASA work operates to the same demanding specifications,	b	Uh huh.

sv	that would put a bunch of defense workers back to work.	b	Right,

qy	You know what causes that?	no	greed, I suspect.

sv	the government specifications,	b	Uh huh.

sv	sheets of paper for building a pair of B V D underwear for the federal government, is twenty two foot tall.	b	Yeah.

sd	If it was all on nine by elevens stacked one on top of another.	qy	For making, you mean, government issue underwear?

na	For making government issue underwear.	ba	Jesus.

sv	To just understand those legal requirements and operate within the government guidelines, costs the company a huge amount of money.	b	Uh huh.

sv	a huge amount of it is not the fault of the contractor.	b	Right,

sv	a huge amount of what you hear about the seventy five dollar hammers, and the nine hundred dollar toilet seats doesn't come from people in the industry,	b	Right.

sv	my job is government tooling specialist.	b	okay,

sv	I'm trying to think of his name and, what they put, him through in regards to,	qy^d	Thomas?

sd^m	Thomas.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I know that's my personal viewpoint of things.	qy	Doesn't Wisconsin have a, state, Medicare program or health program?

sv	So, I don't know if it's done because we want to be standing out as being innovative in the health system or whether it was done for, you know, a real good purpose to help people that can't afford, health insurance, that kind of thing.	b	Right.

ba	sure.	sv	And that is, we become so debt ridden and credit oriented instead of, cash and carry or debt free

b	Uh huh.	sv	and therefore, that puts a lot of undue pressure on municipalities, state and federal governments.

sv	when we have T V s and we have things that are kind of bombarded at us for, you know, immorality and this and this and this, that we can expect somebody to come off that's going to be totally clean . And come into government.	b	Right.

sv	I mean when somebody's corrupt and somebody's doing something, you know, it does hurt each individual of the society when you find out that somebody's done something or the overdraft policy or, you know, the other things that have occurred,	sv	see the thing is when a lot of things become acceptable practice it's hard to discern what has become muddy as to what is ethical and what is not ethical.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And then someone blows the whistle and says, this is not ethical and yes I did it too.

sv	there's no secrets in the government. I don't think anymore.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	He also, was a congressman. to Congress.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he had been in that position for years.

b	Sure.	sd	And, he was elected mayor of Dallas overwhelmingly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	However, if the vote was taken today, the whole thing might change because he was part of that, check kiting scam .

qo	what do you think about the war recently?	qy^d	The war?

ny	Uh huh.	qy^d	You mean in terms of the economy

sd	just everything.	sd^t	I thought we were going to talk about social changes.

ny	yeah.	bk	okay .

b	Yeah,	b	Okay

b	Right.	sv	because, I mean, I know that there was so much more support for the soldiers going over,

b	Right.	sv	and even people that didn't agree with the war still seem to be able to separate that, you know, and support the soldiers,

sd	you couldn't become a political figure or president unless you had served in the war,	b	Yeah.

sv	you couldn't be a political figure if you were in Vietnam probably.	b	Yeah,

sv	And now, if you've served in Desert Storm you probably would be a good candidate.	b	yeah.

 ba	E , exactly, exactly.	b	Yeah

 %	yea ,	 +	just drastically altered.

 sv	or good that it ended as soon as it did.	b	Yeah,

sv	and it seems like everything is raising, everything that can be, cigarettes, not that I smoke, but cigarettes, stamps,	 b	Yeah.

sv	I mean it seems like ever ,	sv	Even dog licenses

sv	everything single thing that we do, is higher,	b	Yeah.

sv	but that's not like, you know, as much as they should have raised it I'm sure.	^2	Going to effect too many,

b	Right.	sd	but, you know, every week it gets harder

b^r	Right.	sd	you know, so that's a big, stress I think, you know, for the social changes in our family.

sd	I work as a news reporter in Waco,	b	I see.

sd	I got to see probably a good part of the war, as far as what people thought about it, and a lot of things like that,	b	Uh huh.

 sd	people were coming to me to ask me, you know, what's going on, you know, like I knew, or like I sat in on the meetings or something.	b	Yeah,

 sv	so that was pretty interesting.	b	Yeah,

 b	Yeah.	 +	in terms of women feeling like they have to have a career, be mom, be, everything, superperson .

aa@	exactly. Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	whereas before that never would have happened ,

sv	Whereas it would have been,	sv(^q)	people would have said, why are you going to work.

aa	Exactly,	sv	So, that's kind of a difference for us.

sv	The roles are changing a lot.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	So, it's now he has the pressure too of being superdad and supercareer

sd	because, you see that they have THE THREE MEN AND A BABY type movies.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And I think, you know that,	sd	MISTER MOM

 sd	and then you have the women, detectives now and, you know, different roles,	b	Uh huh.

sv	so we probably want to do that even more now. You know since the women's movement in the, seventies,	b	Yeah,

 sv	and, you know, we've come a long way but I think it's still have a good ways to go.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	my family was real liberal,

b	Right.	sv	and, you know, I think there's so much prejudice still there,

b	Yeah.	sv	and it's kind of more covert now.

aa^r	Exactly.	 sv	and now, you know, I think there's still tremendous amount of prejudice,

 %	It's just not as,	 sv	but people think, we're in the nineties, we're beyond all that, you know .

sv	I mean like I say, we've come a long way, but we have, I mean, twice as far to go, still,	b	Yeah,

sv	and I don't think a lot of people, you know, realize the plight of a lot of people. You know, and you may be in good standing and everything may look hunky dory to you, but there's so many more people, exactly, * slash marks right? Should there be one after 'exactly'?	b	Yeah.

 ba	yeah.	 sd	you know, because when I was growing up in Chicago, we were in a real ethnic neighborhood

 b	Yeah.	 +	you know , from any place other than Texas hardly, you know.

sd	I grew up in, in Brooklyn, New York,	 ba	boy.

 sd	and so I was just surrounded, you know, by Black people,	 b	Yeah.

sd	and so, you know that's where I lived.	b	Yeah.

 sd	I went to U T to college,	 b	Oh.

 sd	and so you know, they have a lot of different people go there, different kinds of people.	b	Yeah.

 sd	And so I feel really enriched in that a lot of people don't get to see,	b	Yeah.

 sd	you know, some people have lived in Lewisville all their life, you know, and they don't get to see,	b	Yeah,

 ba	Exactly . And th ,	sd	We lived in a dorm.

 b	Uh huh.	sd	and ours was, international you know, co ed dorm,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there were twelve hundred students,

ba	Exactly.	 sv	because it really is exciting, to be around people of different cultures and different backgrounds.

aa	It is.	sd	We got invited to,

ba	my God.	sd	I wonder if he was from, Iran, or some place,

sd	Well, there's so many people who have never, you know, even gotten to do that,	 +@	Yeah,

 sd	My sister was telling me she's going to the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia,	b	uh huh.

sd	and, she just met a girl from, I think, Barbados or Jamaica, or something, like that.	b	Oh.

sd	And I mean this girl she had like two outfits that she would just wear all the time, and everything	 b	Yeah,

sd	and,	 b	yeah.

 sd	and,	 ba	God.

 +	I just thought that was so very exciting, you know, to go and just witness, you know, this girl just coming to America type thing, you know. too.	 b	Yeah,

sd	When I first moved here I was only thirteen but, everyone had a car in school, you know,	 ba	gosh.

sd	I was from New York so, you know, we road the bus.	b	Yeah,

sd	you just didn't have a car,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I couldn't understand it.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, all the kids had cars,	b	Yeah.

sd	and they, you know, have to have a car.	ba	gosh,

sd	So that was,	sd	my kids are going to be hating me,

b	right.	^q	so you can afford to pay the insurance, you know .

sd	Or live really close to school and have them walk.	b	Yeah,

 sv	a lot of changes.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think so .	bk	Okay.

fc	well, it's good talking to you.	fc	You too,

ad	Well, basically, did you want to go first, then?	aa	well, I can.

b	right.	sd	I mean I live in a nice area

sd	it's just a typical home with, three bedrooms, two story type home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it's, pretty much that, type of, home	b	Uh huh

bh	really?	sd	And, he's recently moved here

b	Yeah.	sd@	But the houses around here, there's five houses on my street for sale right now. Which is just, in trouble to me.

b	Yeah.	sd	And they're not very expensive either.

qy^d	So it's the rambler style.	ny	Yeah,

sv	It seems like they get incredibly small .	b	Yeah.

qy^d^t	The T I?	ny	Uh huh.

sd^e	about three times before.	bh	have you?

sd^t	but it seems to be going okay.	b	Yeah.

nn	huh uh.	b^m	No,

sd	I'm in Wisconsin,	bh	really?

ny^r	yeah.	b	Oh.

qy^t	Is this your first time?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	 %	but, Yeah.

sd^t	I don't have to wait until somebody calls me even though I have a feeling what's going to happen is I'll probably get tons of calls, you know, sooner or later.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so that was kind of interesting .

b	sure.	sv^t	they're sure getting their people out,

fc	Yeah.	fc	and,

fc	well, you take it easy, Gail.	fc	Okay,

 fc	Bye, now.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	but I go from classical all the way to, jazz and country and soft pop,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and there isn't any particular music that I enjoy more than just listening to all kinds	b	Uh huh.

sv	now, it's pretty neat music that they came out with,	sd	I'm pretty much the same way,

o	you talk about twangy.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	My in laws listen to the kind of music I hate .

sv	the old, old country,	aa@	The old, real old, yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	But other than that, I like pretty much everything.

sd	Lately, you know, with the new music that has come out, some of the really good, music they have the saxophone playing,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's so funny, because you can take an instrument and forget what it really sounds like when it plays by itself.	b	Uh huh,

sd	my daughter just fell.	qy	Do you like Kenny G?

sd^e	a little bit.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she slipped.	ba	no.

sd	I can take all kinds of music pretty much except for when you get, like I said, into the real hard rock,	b	Uh huh.

sv	let's just put it that way, hearing, anyway,	b	Yeah,

b	sure.	sd	and I thought, no wonder

 fc	Okay.	 fc	You all have a good day.

 fc	You, too.	fc	Bye bye.

qo	well, what do you all do for camping?	sd	Well, we don't do so much now,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then with our children, we had a pop up tent camper.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we used that to go camping.

qw	Where do you go?	sd	years ago we lived in Oklahoma

b	Oh. Uh huh.	sd	But, when we did it with our children, we lived in, Tennessee

qy^d	Around Gatlinburg, or somewhere up in there?	ny	Uh huh.

qy	and did it get real cold at night,	na	It got real cold,

b	yeah.	sd	so you know, we had our bedding.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, that got kind of rough sometimes .

sd	but we'll stay in cabins. And, you know, call that going camping,	qy	do you?

sd@	we drove up by Cosa Springs, Colorado. And went back seventeen miles back in the back where you couldn't even get a forest ranger if you tried to the tent for a week.	b	uh huh.

sd	You know, they were just right there.	ba	just beautiful.

sd	But about the fourth day, I thought, if I don't get a hot tub and shave my legs, I'm going to die .	b	Yes.

sd	And I had I, I got enough of it right then.	b	Yes,

sd	So, when we can go to a cabin as long as we've got running water I'm a little bit better off.	b	But, yeah

sd	I know that .	sd	And I agree with him.

sd	I agree with him, too.	sd	Our children are grown,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we got just strictly by ourselves.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, and we could, you know, get back in touch with each other .

sd	And then once they're there they think it's kind of cool.	ba	I know.

b	Yeah.	 +@	Or enjoyed it. Uh huh.

sd	Mom did the whole, pork and beans and, you know, the slice the potatoes and fry them outside and all the little stuff that we just were so amazed that she knew how to do .	b	Yes,

sd	You know, couldn't believe,	b	Yes,

^2	with bacon.	b	and,

b	yeah.	 +	Yes,

sd	and daddy would always try to prove he could catch fish for breakfast	b	Yes .

sd	One.	sd^m	One,

sd^r	One.	sd	But, I know that you know, as a teenager growing up and going to Lake Murray, there would be maybe twenty, twenty five of us because it would be all of my mother's family, you know, and all my cousins.

sd	Is that where you're hot, like on a beach,	ba	no.

sd	Because a lot of our friends will,	sd	we were in the woods, you know.

sd	and I'm thinking, how could you stand it, you know	sd	Well, we didn't notice it back then,

ba	that's true.	sd	And, you know, it always rained on us.

sd	and see, especially in the tent every afternoon it would rain	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you would get your book and just kind of cuddle up.	b	Cuddle up, uh huh.

sd	And I thought that was fun.	h	Well, I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the water rushed down

ba	no.	sd	and, you know , There went several things floating down this water, you know.

ba	no .	sd	We just used to have balls.

ba	Golly .	sd	You know, it was more fun.

 %	Well,	 sd	And then my folks had a cabin at one time at Lake Tenkiller

sd	in fact, the more urban we get with the television and the cabin and the whole bit, it loses it's flavor.	aa	Yes,

sd	Well, I've gotten in the mood to go now .	b	Yeah

b	Yeah	sd	And I know if I go home and say, let's go camping, my husband says, you're crazy .

fc	Well, listen, I enjoyed talking with you.	fc	I enjoyed talking to you, too.

fc	Have a good day.	fc	Thank you.

qw	where are you from?	sd	just here in Dallas.

bk	okay	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	I was just curious.	b	yes,

qy^t	Have you, too?	ny	Uh huh.

ad	Go, ahead,	b	Uh huh.

ad	you first, Eve .	aa	okay.

b	Food.	qw	What type of foods do you cook

ba	great.	sd	And to me, that's the type of thing that I like to give in, cooking for people.

sd	It's fairly easy and fast.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess I'm thinking of the easy thing to do for having, dinner.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, the breakfasts and, and the steaks,	b	Yes.

sd	Although I would like to experiment with, the meals my mother made, you know. So to speak,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I haven't gotten around to that yet,	qw	What kind of meals did she make that you liked?

sd	We were very poor.	b	Uh huh.

sd	she would throw things together	b	Uh huh.

sd	And my wife, of course, thinks I'm crazy, which I may be too	b	No.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

sv	But dinner parties are a lot of work,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	People can entertain themselves, I think, a great deal more, when you have a barbecue. Especially when you have hot dogs and hamburgers and, you know, nothing really fancy, like your shish kabobs, where you have to do a whole bunch of work.

sd	shish kabob is, just because it only takes a few minutes to cook, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, so far as getting out there and putting it on, it only takes a few minutes,	b	Right.

 +	my guests, I guess,	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	you know, my mother used to make an Armenian rice dish.

b	yeah.	sd	I'm thinking about, special dishes,

b	yeah.	sd	And then you'd simmer it like all day long.

^2	You'd get the odor of it, yeah.	aa	Yeah.

b	yes.	sd	and there's so much broth and juice in there, that it has to, soak up into the rice, all day long, in order for it to come out fluffy and nice.

ba	great.	sd	And that was, you know,

sv	I guess it gets better and better as we remember it, back, as we get older, you know.	ba	That's true.

sv	But we probably should try it, to do that.	ba	That's true.

sv	and we'll probably forget all about them, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	here I am talk about trying to make everything easy, you know.	b	Right,

 sd	And, we were going over to my mother's house for Christmas, you know, to have a meal.	 b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	I said, We don't have turkey at Christmas .	b	Oh.

sd(^q)	I said, We're going to have a ham.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	She said, What?	ba	Yeah!

sd	And because she had turkey a lot, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we always had ham, you know.	b	Right,

sd	the cans were cooked for hours and hours and were just wonderful, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'd like to try that too.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, what they have is this honey baked ham,

ba	That's good.	qy	have you had any of those?

sd	My wife I think goes	sd	if you ever get a chance to buy one of those, I think it was, twenty dollars, for, I don't remember how many pounds it was.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But you cook it in the bag that they send it in.

bh	really?	 sd	And all the juices and everything are all sealed in.

b	Yeah.	sd	But with this honey bake that they have, that's the only one I have been able to find there at Sam's warehouse.

sd@	I'll have to ask her about that. because we have a delivery guy that comes around, that sells,	sd	And it slices great. Uh huh.

sd	They have steaks and, and, actually, pirogies and all that stuff that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was boneless	b	Yeah.

sd	We had it for breakfast a long time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It was really great.	ba	Wow!

b	Yeah.	 sd	But that's the only ham I have found that I thoroughly, thoroughly enjoy.

sd	because I don't think in my married life, which is, twenty six years now, we've never done that, you know.	b	Wow.

sd	And I remember that when I was a kid, to have the ham cooking. rather than that, we just,	b	Uh huh.

sd	ham is just something you have for breakfast occasionally, you know.	b	Right .

sd	and I don't think we, really have it as a main meal.	b	Right.

qw	how have you changed your meals now?	b	yeah.

qy^d	looking at those things?	na	Well, my parents actually started it,

sv	Parents, that's unusual.	sd	Well, it's true.

b	yeah.	sd	And then gradually they started switching over to, plain rice, no gravy.

ba	That's amazing.	sv	it really is.

b	Yeah.	sd	And they started doing this, like or in about the middle seventies.

ba	Well, that's amazing,	b	yeah.

sd	Usually it's the younger people doing it.	ba	It's true,

sd	 my wife's mother is the only grandparent left,	ba	So, it's really neat.

sd	and, she has high cholesterol.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Of course, I have too, but not like hers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And she just will, I mean, she's going to eat the same way she ate, you know, her whole life.	b	That's right.

sd	And she just tells, more or less tells me to shut up, you know.	b	Right .

sd	I'm trying to do something about my cholesterol in the same way.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, he talks about, you know, the chicken and the rice and everything else.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then he's got me into making eggs without the yolk.	ba	Wow!

ad	You know, try that sometime.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, when I make scrambled eggs now, talking about a recipe,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but if I'm making four eggs, even for my daughter I'll take out all the yolks but one.	ba	Wow!

sd	In fact, when I make eggs for myself, if I fry them, throw them in there, I will almost hard fry them so I can not eat the yolk at all.	 b	Uh huh,

sd	You get like, a bite at the most.	b	Uh huh.

sd	My cholesterol gone down twenty points.	ba	Wow, that's good.

sd	I don't know, whether any of that is true, you know . Whether the margarines or butter,	b	Uh huh.

qy	Well, do you have any, television programs that you watch regularly?	^h	this is kind of tough.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't have a lot of time

b	No.	sd	But, I watch things like, SIXTY MINUTES,

b	Uh huh.	 +	every week.

bh	you will?	ny	Yeah,

bf	Relax.	qo	but, How about you?

sd	and sometimes I will watch, like the network evening news program.	b	Yeah,

sd	it comes on like at nine o'clock, at night	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have seen that, MURPHY BROWN that comes on, Monday nights before	b	Uh huh.

 sv	and it's kind of cute,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't think of the name of the one that has the, military, fellow.

b	but,	sd	I mean he's playing a military part.

sd	I have seen it, I think, maybe once.	b	Yeah,

sd	My children like some of the morning children's shows, when they're home.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's just like a SESAME STREET,	 b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't watch any daytime T V at all.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	On Saturdays they have, a variety of things,

b	Uh huh.	 sd	and, they have a calligraphy show,

ba	that's nice.	sd	And, they have a lot of cooking shows,

b	Uh huh.	 sd	And, you know, I'll just short of have it on sometimes to just sort of pick up little tidbits from those.

sd	and when the newspaper comes out on Sunday, I sometimes read through the movies that will be listed,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we never go to like a video tape rental anymore because there's always plenty of things that we can record and then,	b	Yeah.

sd	and they have a couple of channels that are like nostalgic older movies, that I have really enjoyed that I'm seeing for the first time . Like the MARX BROTHERS and things like that.	b	Yes.

sd	Some of the video rentals can be expensive	b	Yeah.

sd	and you can do it anytime you take the notion.	b	Yeah.

sd	They have some programs that they won't miss.	b	Uh huh,

sv	Well, and things are repeated, so often that you know if I have seen just a program once chances are it'll be that exact same show . if I ever decide to tune it in again,	b	Yeah.

sv	Pretty funny.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, T V is something that we to not, deliberately try not to get hung up on it, like you say.	b	Yeah.

 sd	and there's a lot of good children's programs that they could watch several hours every day.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Even if they're, good programs you don't want them sitting there watching them.	b	Right.

 o	Anyway. Well,	b	Okay.

ad^t	and, I guess it's time to go.	aa	Okay.

fc	Nice to have spoken with you, too.	fc	Okay.

 fc	Bye bye.	fc	Good bye.

 b	Uh huh.	 +@	What do you do?

 sd	I like to do like physical things like sports.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	and my favorite is volleyball,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I live up at the college, So sometimes it's hard for me to do that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I go to my room and I like walk in, turn the radio on, or, you know, just kind of like veg out or something.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have to do something where I can do it at home.

 b	Uh huh.	sd	and I love to do all kinds of crafts and stuff like that.

sd	I like to do that stuff, but like when I'm at school, I don't have time to do it or even time to learn how to do it.	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	But you know, I don't have a whole lot of time now but I have more time than I did,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And a lot of my sewing I kind of do out of necessity, you know,

sd	Like, I have, I come from a family of twelve children,	b	Oh.

 sd	so you know, that's a change, because there's nine of them that are younger than me.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess talking on the phone is one of my hobbies too.	b	Yeah,

sd	well, I'm not much of a basketball fan either.	sd	I enjoy playing volleyball but you know, I, I don't have a lot of time to do it,

 b	yeah.	 sd	It's maybe once a year or something

b	Uh huh.	b	But, yeah,

sd	not that I like reading, but I do do a lot of reading while I'm here at school.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you like reading as a hobby?	na	I love to read, but you know, I don't have a lot of time to read an,

b	Yeah.	 +	You know, what reading I do, I kind of do because you know, it's the necessary stuff

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

 b	Uh huh.	 %	And, just,

b	Uh huh.	qy	you know, you make clothes for them and everything like that.

ny	Yeah.	sd	those have been real popular with my family.

b	yeah.	sd	you know, it's like I can only do it when I have time.

qy^d	I know one thing that's pretty popular with the girls up here at college, and I make them also, is the padded covered photo albums?	ny	Oh yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Those are real,

b	Yeah.	sv	Those are real popular,

sd	I know they're real popular here at school, also.	b	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I just kind of sew for my kids

sv^t	I really don't have any other.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	fc	Okay,

fc	It was nice talking to you too.	fc	Good luck in school.

fc	Thanks.	fc	Bye, bye .

qr	do you have a home, or apartment?	ny	Uh huh,

qy	do you have to do a lot of upkeep?	ng	Not really,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I do basically like the shrubbery and the planting and the weeding

bk	Okay .	sd	and, I do the edging and stuff like that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I try and do as much, you know flowering as I can, and that kind of stuff. The seasonal things.

b	uh huh.	sd	But, I think we have one of the nicest yards in the neighborhood .

sd	but it takes about an hour with the two of us working to, you know, do the bushes and all of that sort of thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	the worst part is controlling the weeds. Which I hate because we don't like to use a lot of the chemicals and, because, like, we have a dog and, you know, he's going to be out in the yard and who knows who he eats out there.	b	yeah.

sd	I get to put out all the Christmas lights out there and all that, sort of thing .	sd	I don't .

bh	No?	nn	No,

sd	like, one year we did the edge of the house all the way up on the roof	b	Uh huh.

sd	I decided I was afraid .	b	Yeah.

sd	that's all it gets.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so we have some bushes, but we don't have too many,

ba	wow.	sd	and, they keep hitting the tree with the lawn mower.

ba	no.	sd	You know, every time you do that, it, kind of kills the tree for a while.

b	Yeah.	sd	And so that's kind of stunt its growth for just a while until we get it back going again.

b	Oh.	sd	And we started mowing our own lawn

b	Uh huh.	sd	because they were doing that.

b	Uh huh.	 +	that kind of thing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they also edged,

ba@	no . But you still have to pay for it, even though they're not going to do it?	ny	Yeah,

qy	is it real expensive?	ny	Yes

 ba	gosh.	 sd	it's like seventy a month.

ba	my goodness.	b	Yeah,

qy	Well, do they do other things for you all?	sd	They take care of the, landscape,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so they care of that

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there is a pond,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so you're basically paying,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and and so that way if someone moves out, the entire neighborhood is mowed and watered and that kind of thing, you know.

qy^g	But you knew when you moved in, you'd have to pay that, didn't you?	na	Well, it, it went up what we pay.

b	Oh .	sd	And that's the bad thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know what to do if you can't afford it .

ba	That's interesting.	 %	So, but, they're, unless you don't want them to do it.

qy	do things like plant bushes and trees?	na	only like, in the common areas and in the island.

bk	okay.	sd	But they don't do it in your yard.

qy	So, there is, like, no restriction on what types of bushes you can have or anything like that?	na	Right,

sd	I ripped most of them out and put them somewhere in the back.	ba	I know.

sd	But that was a lot of work.	b	Yeah.

sd	Took me a long time.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Just rearranged some things .

sd	and, We won't go through that again,	b	Oh.

sd	I will pay someone to do it .	bh	really?

sd	it took so long.	b	Oh.

sd	there is a machine that will do it.	b	yeah.

sv	And I guess that costs you an absolute fortune.	b	Oh.

sd	By hand.	b	Oh.

sd	but it works great now that we've got it.	ba	I bet.

sd	it's nice.	b	Yeah,

sd	you know, you have to keep the area moist	b	Oh.

sd	so, we had an incentive there to do that.	b	Oh.

sd	Well Amy it's been, kind of overcast today and cloudy.	b	Yeah.

sd	he was having a kite day,	b	boy.

sd	and it's been pretty rainy looking.	b	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so I keep hearing the forecast it's going to rain, it's going to rain, it's going to rain,

sd	I know it just has that,	sd	I know.

sd	several times in the last couple of weeks it has looked rainy that day and not done anything.	b	Yeah.

sd	they're pretty old, big tall trees,	b	Uh huh.

sd@	and so if it's an overcast day then the weather is pretty blah . Because I really have to catch some sunshine or else I feel like I live in a cave all the time,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and if it's not nice and they can't go out, it's really the pits .

ba	I bet.	sd	But I appreciate it when they can at least go play in the backyard for an hour or something, you know.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	That makes a big difference	b	Yeah.

sd	and , I thought, well, I'm just not anxious to have worry about the weather.	b	Yeah.

b	Well, yeah.	sd	I mean all Winter long he's been wanting a pool in the backyard.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I really miss that,

sd	we have some extreme weather in each season,	b	Yeah.

^q	it's not going to be so humid,	b	Oh .

sd	that has just not been the case.	b	really

sd	It has been,	b	yeah.

sd	my car, I thought it was going die last Summer	qy	Do have air conditioning in your car

sv	I guess it just couldn't handle, the stress, and the record heat,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, you know, I was worried about every time we came to an intersection the car started idling rough, you know, because of the extreme heat.	b	Yeah.

ba	I know.	fe	Gosh.

sd	but I, understand that this is kind of typical for this time of year that rainy season.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we never used to have to water our lawns

b	No.	sd	you know in Chicago it was always enough rain here and there

b	Sure.	sd	so here if you don't water it just looks awful.

sd	Brown.	sd	I just hate to spend the money just going down the drain and watering grass, you know.

sv	and they want to go out and run in it and get all muddy, You know,	b	Yeah

qh	so you're going do I want a green lawn or a muddy feet , in the house.	b	Yeah,

sd	the nice thing I'm looking forward to is, not having a hurricane season.	b	yeah,

sd	and, you know, you had to have a supply like, emergency supply on hand all the time during the hurricane season,	ba	boy.

sd@	and it was pretty spooky . because you always have to think, you know, what's the weather doing,	aa	Yeah,

sd	And do we have enough, you know, food storage, and enough, batteries and all the kinds of things.	b	Yeah.

ba	That's right.	fe	boy.

sd	Well yeah, I don't really like tornadoes either,	b	Yeah.

sd	so, not too much of that.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, I can't believe the record temperatures that	b	Yeah.

 +	were here last Summer that,	sd	a hundred and ten degrees

sd	it was just unbelievably hot.	sd	And I can't stand to be outside at all when it's like that,

aa	That is pretty bad.	sd	We had our air conditioning break , last Summer.

ba	I can't imagine.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I guess the weather hasn't changed too much from here to Houston	b	Yeah.

sd	like you say coming a little bit further up north. It's a little bit nicer to have a Spring and a Fall season, where you have some pleasant weather everyday where you can feel like you just want to open your windows	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, it feels good	b	Yeah.

nn	No	fe	Gosh

ba	no.	sd	They had to replace all their carpeting and everything,

ba	Now, that sounds awful.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I have driven around in the neighborhoods and seen those little flood gauges that will be at little yellow signs,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I thought I would never buy a house with a flood gauge down the street.	b	really.

sd	that would be awful.	b	Yeah,

fc	Well, I've got some kids out on the trampoline I need to go look and see what they're doing.	fc	Okay,

fc	Well, you too.	fc	Thanks.

qy^d	Say you did, starters and bendix springs such as that on an old one.	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	Some that, she had to, label everything .

qy^d	She had to label everything.	ny	Yeah

qw	What was she driving?	sd	It was a Cadillac.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And well, they quit making those, the quieter jet carburetor

b	Yeah.	sd	They rebuilt it

sd	quad not really easy to get rebuilt just right.	b	Yeah.

qw	and like, what were you replacing the starters and bendix on?	sd	a Maverick and also, a Chrysler station wagon before that.

qy	Did you replace just the, bendix on the Chrysler station wagon or the whole starter?	sd	I'm replacing the, two or three starters on the Chrysler.

sd	The starters are kind of fragile.	b	Yeah

sd	Especially if you need a tune up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it starts up	b	Yeah.

sd	and when it's properly tuned up, that starter will last for a long time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	See, they built that starter so it would fit every V eight and all the slant sixes that they've built in like thirty five years.	b	Right.

sd	but they geared it down so the motor spins really fast so it's got, to spin for very long,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's kind of tough on the bushings.	b	Yeah.

sd	Usually what goes is the bushings.	b	Right.

sd	But, most places don't rebuild them with g , with good enough bushings.	b	Uh huh.

sd	after you get rebuilt one, you have a tendency to go through them pretty quickly, especially if you need a tune up.	 b	Yeah.

qw	Anyway, what are you driving now?	sd	my Chrysler van

ba	That's good.	b	Yeah.

qy	is that Chrysler van?	na	It's a eighty seven.

qy	one of the little mini vans?	b	Uh huh,

sd	Do you like the way it rides and stuff?	qr	rides or runs?

qy^d	Rides rough?	ny	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	it took me a while to get used to a four cylinder engine.

b	Yeah.	sd	You have to kind of wait for it, especially when you get on the highway.

sd	right now, without getting some of the sportier models, the four cylinders aren't real peppy.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, they're starting to change that out in the last couple of years, too.	qy^d	You driven American cars all,

sd	every time I turned around I was having trouble with it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, I starting working my father's service station when I was about, twelve.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Had a super B for a while with a four forty in it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was a lot of fun.	sd	Not much gas mileage, though.

sd	It got about seventeen.	ba	wow.

sd	but	b	Yeah.

sd	Didn't have to work too hard to move the car around.	qy	Now, do you think since they started with electronic ignition that it improves the way the car runs?

sd^e	definitely.	b	Uh huh.

sd	When I rebuilt the engine on that, about a hundred and thirty thousand on the car.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, Wayne, I've never done any, auto repairs myself at all.	b	Uh huh.

qo	what's your experience been like?	sd	Well, I have a long experience with cars.

b	Uh huh.	 sv	It just, to me it makes absolutely no economic sense to do that.

 b	Right.	 sd	In fact, I, just this past weekend put new plugs in both, my car an my wife's car.

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	And so, I pretty much try to troubleshoot and do everything I can do myself

ba	That makes sense.	sd	I mean I don't know whether I've just reached a point, you know,

b	yes.	 sd	And, so, I try to make sure that, by the time fall runs around, because we actually have winters here on the east coast,

b	Right .	 +	that, you know, the car's in pretty good shape enough to last through the winter

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	And you're required to get your car and go through the emission test,

ba	I'm sure it was.	sd	But the thing was that I could do the job myself,

b	Uh huh.	sd	if I'd taken it someplace and have it done it was going to be three hundred twenty five.

b	Right.	qh	Now like who's got that extra two and a quarter ,

 sd	and he hasn't given it to someone else.	 b	Yeah.

sd	and he just isn't one of them.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	 sd	so, but, I think the difference is that, when you own the car you take more care in what you're doing,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you want to make sure that it's done right and put back together right,

 b	Right.	 +	You know, those kind of things,

b	No.	sv	And it's very, very difficult to find a mechanic these days that you can trust.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, he's about sixty miles from here.

sd	you know, that it's, , really has a bad reputation is to feel that people in general feel and have rightly so, I think been cheated many times,	 b@	Uh huh

sd	they had punctured a big hole in it when it really could have just been patched or whatever,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, so, Kelly growing up, he felt like that was a good way on Saturday's that he developed a good relationship with his father.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so, they used car repairs kind of as a way to have you know, something that they did together,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, that's one way he looked at it.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean he just would not have anything to do with them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I guess there are some people out there like that, you know,

b	Uh huh.	b	But, yeah,

sd	so, I haven't tried to do a lot myself.	sd	I trained my wife in the hou , in doing things,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it was an interesting experience for her.

^q	and I know what's going on	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it helps you figure out what's wrong with it,

b	Uh huh.	 +	you know,

sd	as far as, universal health care I guess I'm all for it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it doesn't matter if you have money no mone , or all the money in the world,	^2	You should still be ,

sv	But, the expenses right now for health care, are just unreal.	sv	Well, they really are even when you're not talking about surgery.

b	Yes.	sd	and, you know in the past month it just, they pass things from one to one

b	sure.	sd	and it just can devastate your budget, you know.

^q	and I can, you know,	^q	Can still make big bucks .

sv	And in a universal system I don't think there is a financial gain for the doctors.	qy	Do you think that the quality, it would would be as high?

sv	The quality I think goes down. Uh huh	b	Yeah.

 +	when you have a universal system.	 b^r	Yeah.

sv	I guess that's the whole U S concept is to come here and,	b	Right.

sd	That's what they look at it as.	b	Yeah.

sv	and that's sad because if that's the case, if doctors aren't going in to be doctors to help people then maybe they shouldn't be in that area anyway.	 b	Right.

sv	But that might be one way of weeding out those that are greedy for the money and those that really want to help mankind.	b	Yeah.

sv	But I think we have to head toward that way.	sv	Well, we're going to have to do something because there's just too many people in the country that are uninsured

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you know you cannot,

sd	I'm worried when I get older.	ba	sure.

sd	You no longer have insurance.	b	Right.

sd	I mean and you're sixty some or fifty some years old you try to find insurance.	b	Uh huh.

 sv	I mean you're uninsurable. Unless you want to pay five hundred, six hundred dollars a month	ba	That's right.

sd	and I know people that are paying two hundred, three hundred dollars a month for insurance.	b	Yeah.

sd	it was like eighty dollars out of my paycheck.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean I'm driving a piece of junk, you know

sv	it's getting harder and harder to survive.	b	Right.

sv	And, and that's why, if they don't go to a universal system, something is going to happen.	b	Right.

o	Okay.	ad	Why don't you go ahead and start.

sd	and, of course I like the PEOPLE magazine because it's gossipy and it's fast reading,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then I will purchase a GOOD HOUSEKEEPING occasionally, especially around the holiday time because of recipes and ideas and and things like that	b	Uh huh.

qy	and, do you subscribe to any magazines?	b	Yeah,

qy^d	you probably have smaller children younger children.	ny	Yes,

sd	our children are grown	ny	Yeah,

sd	and, I'm letting their mother read on the grandchildren .	b	Right,

qy	Well, do you think that people subscribe to magazines as much as they used to?	no	I don't know,

sd	now my husband does that,	b	Yeah,

sd	you know, and of course, naturally WALL STREET JOURNAL, you know and, or SPORTS ILLUSTRATED,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and I took them all	b	Uh huh.

sd	in the seventies, maybe, late seventies they changed their format	 b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't think there's been a magazine as they used to be	b	Well

sv	even GOOD HOUSEKEEPING I don't,	b	yeah,

sd	My sister, takes, TOWN AND COUNTRY and VOGUE	b	Uh huh.

sv	and there's really nothing in them but advertisements for very expensive clothes, very expensive jewelry things that the average middle class citizen is not going to be purchasing	b	Yeah,

sd	you know, and if I want to drool or if I want to see how the other half is living you know, then I look through them	b	Yes.

sd	they're not something I, you know, take any length of time over.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I have discovered that, you know, with my available time, I would rather actually read a book than a magazine.	b	Yes

b	Yes	sv	that's true.

b	Yes .	sd	they're always getting something in the mail

sd	I will read them in a doctor's office, too.	b	Yeah,

sd	I like reading, you know, the PASSAGE OF PEOPLE or something you know,	b	Uh huh,

sd	it reminds me of the old time movie magazines when I was young	b	uh huh.

sd	It's quick reading you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and sometimes after I've worked all day and have things to do at night, I just, I want fluff	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't want a lot of thinking .	ba	That's true,

qy^c	Are you still there?	na	I'm ready .

qw	So what's, things that you look for when you go out to dinner?	sd	I just like a nice, quiet, nice atmosphere and of course good food .

b	Uh huh.	sd	that's always a concern, but just a nice quiet easy place maybe candlelight something just to relax, you know because I don't really go out to dinner that much,

sd	We try to get out maybe like once every month and a half or something like that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I definitely want to go to a place that's nice and clean, you know.	b	Right.

sv	You know, you see cockroaches crawling around and everything, you know.	b	Oh .

sd	and then I like you know, good food and good service.	b	Yeah.

b	right.	sv	and you can just relax, and stay as long as you want.

qy	So is there some nice places to go to eat in Plano?	na	Well, nearby.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we have quite a bit between us and there.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and there is all kinds of restaurants

ba	that sounds beautiful.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Well. This is only a little small city.	sd	But it's gone .

sd	You know, they have prime rib on, weekends	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the atmosphere there is really, really nice.	ba	that's nice.

sd	So, and then if we really want to, you know, something different we go to Modesto which is like twenty minutes away.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, we don't have any fast foods here in this small city .	sv	That is probably very fortunate for you.

br^m	Do I have kids?	ny	Yeah.

sd	but he's grown up.	sd	because I have a twelve year old that would eat a happy meal every night, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so something's happened here,

qy^g	All the kids seem to love McDonald's don't they, you know.	ny	Uh huh,

sd	I'm sure there isn't.	sd	Well, we have all kinds of fast foods everywhere around

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it's tempting when you come home from work

ba	I know.	sv	You know, it adds up

qw^t	Well, let's see, what else can we talk about? .	qo	Well, how's California today? .

sd	it's foggy and cold here.	bh	Is it?

b	Yeah	qy	Have you always lived there?

na	I came from Iowa when I was sixteen	bk	Oh.

sd	so I've lived out in California for a long, long time.	qy^d	And you like it?

sd^e	I like it real well.	b	Yeah,

sd	so we used to have a lot more restaurants to go to there you know,	b	yeah.

sd	so, right in Chinatown, so we went to lots of restaurants Chinese restaurants,	ba	that would be fun.

sd	I really miss them. You know.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	I really don't miss living there.	b^m	No.

sd	I just like to go in there and have a nice Chinese dinner once in a while, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's close enough if I wanted to go there, to San Francisco for dinner or something, why, you know, an hour and fifteen minutes we could be there and you know, have dinner and then come on back.	b	Yeah.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and her coach is in California.

b^r	uh huh.	ny	And, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I love it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have my twelve year old in school

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she's happy.

sd	so I don't even know what the law is, in the state,	bh	Uh huh?

bh	do you?	 ny	Well, yes,

sd	I think now, that I recall, reading about it in the paper.	b	Yes.

qy	is it restricted to certain crimes?	 ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sv	It seems to be a disproportionate number of blacks, you know, that get into the system.

sv	I mean they're anxious for someone to be killed .	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can't see that.	sv	That happens on occasion,

b	Uh huh.	h	You know, I don't know,

ar	No.	sv	I think I would be, you know,

sv	Well, there is so many chances for appeal, that it kee ,	aa	yeah,

sv	it's really sad.	b	Yeah.

sd	somehow I hoped that as a people we could be better than, expecting, the feeling that it	b	Yes.

sv	someone is calling for someone else to be killed, you know.	b@	Yes, uh huh.

sv	Is really kind of bad .	aa	Yes

sv	and there really are criminals that are hard core and, repeat, and never have any chance for,	aa	absolutely.

qy	do you feel at all like, it's a religious issue?	ng	Not with me personally.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's not to me personally,

sv	But like you say, if it hit you personally, closer at home you would feel, feel differently.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you think most states have that	ny	Yes,

b@	Uh huh,	sv	But, I think the U S is one of the few countries that still do.

ba	that's right.	aa	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	 sv	A lot of them had to have elected not to do so.

sv	there's a lot of people that are on death row. But there's not very many people that actually, do get killed.	b	yes.

sv	and then through appeals.	b	Yes.

sd	I mean they cover it pretty heavily on television and the newspaper.	b	Uh huh.

sd	If it finally gets to that point.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	sv	there's a lot of, you know, last minute, things that happen cause a person not to, have to go through the whole thing.

qy	are we doing lethal injection now?	ny	Yes,

sv	which seems so awful.	aa	Yes,

sv	I guess, it is,	aa	Yes,

sv	the other one just seems so terrible.	aa	Yes,

qrr	or, it's not because we don't want to pay for inmates to stay in prison?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sv	we hope that it will be, you know, some sort of deterrent or, you know, an eye for an eye type thing, or something like that.

b	Yes.	bf	Easiest way out maybe.

sv	It's, It's kind of been scary, to think about it	b	Yes,

sd	and, And you're hoping there is something that will cut down on that.	aa	Absolutely.

sv	You hate to have the dubious honor of being, you know, so high in the, in statistics,	aa	Yes,

sd	our family, hasn't had any crime.	b	Yes.

sv	it's harder to think about the poor people that have suffered that way.	ba	That's right.

sv	And how they would expect, how they would hope,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean you hear of people who have, committed crimes, and then they get out of jail and they go, and they do the same thing again.	b	Absolutely.

sv	And you wonder why they can't just stop it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, maybe you would,	 b	Uh huh.

sd	but still I would hate to be on the jury that sentenced someone.	aa	So would I,

sd	we moved here, I got a jury summons,	b	Uh huh.

sv	just like constantly, it seemed like,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I didn't have to go.	b	Right.

sv	I mean, I think everyone should have to serve on the jury,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I hate having to be in charge of someone else's life.	aa	Sure,

sd	And I would hate to have to hear any kind of case, involving a violent crime or anything.	b	Yes.

ba	That would be really awful.	aa	Yes.

sd	Well, anyway, I sure have enjoyed, talking to you about this. Although it has been difficult	sv	it's a tough subject,

sv	I'd hate to decide it, but I guess it's important, that we decide as a people what we're going to do.	b	Right.

fc	Anyway, well, you have a good day.	fc	Well, thank you,

fc	bye bye.	fc	Uh huh.

qy	up in, T I out there?	ny	Yeah.

b	right .	qy^t	Did you hit one.

sd^e^t	I just hit one then.	bk	All right.

qr	Are you Republican or Democrat?	sd	kind of neither.

 sd	so I was going to say if you're a Republican, boy we would really have a good time.	sd	I do have some Republican leanings, because, I am division one, you know .

 ad	You first.	sv	I think it's a stinking shame that there isn't capital punishment for those assholes that stold our money.

sv	Go ahead loan your money out, you know.	aa	I agree with you.

sv	Not just a couple.	sd	You know, we've watched and watched T V and seen that a lot of these people were doing things, not just playing in the gray and not just reselling property at a profit, but financing the same property three and four times, you know,

b	Right.	sd	and the list goes on and on. You know, of just the crimes committed. Much less for criminals that should be indicted.

sd	and he lost, you know, all of his money before he died.	b	Yeah.

sv	and they just never even got conservative with our money at all.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	And, everyone forgets that there are several of these people that are wanted by the federal government currently and are overseas where extradition is merely a funny American word.

b	Yeah.	sv	as far as being a Republican or a Democrat, I think no American could stand for criminal action.

sv	And, it hasn't worked now.	sd	in theory, a healthy economy has a lot of spending going on.

ba^r	no doubt.	sd	And, if people are making money, people can spend money,

b	Yeah.	sv	And, for what they would cost

b	Yeah.	sv	We, as Americans weren't producing anything.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I'm sorry we don't get into a real argument over it,

b	Right.	sv	Remember all we're doing is delivering pizzas to each other.

sv	and not high quality ones at that, you know.	b	Yeah.

 sv	a lot of the workers don't understand that, they need to put out the best that they can because it comes right back to them, you know.	sv	It is a life and death struggle, with the Japanese.

^q	so it doesn't matter, you know.	sv	I'm very tired of it all pays by the hour.

b^r	Right.	sd	and I'm nonexempt.

sv	You don't sound like a nonexempt, Jim.	br	What?

sv	You don't sound like a nonexempt.	qw	what does a nonexempt sound like?

sd	I'm being a Yankee, I guess I'm letting my Yankee come out, you know.	sd	now maybe I'm not the, typical nonexempt that you deal with.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I am degreed, though nonexempt.

ba	well that's good.	ar	No .

sd	I know a few people,	ar	No,

qy	like do you do technician work or something?	nn	no,

bk	quality, okay.	sd	right now I'm just trying to tool crib and chips.

b	Yeah.	sv	Times are bad.

sd	I mean there literally is no installation work going on.	sd	They turned all installation up here off.

b	Yeah.	sd	They told facilities they could not work.

b	Yeah.	^q	I don't care what the jobs are, you will not work.

b	Yeah,	sd	and, as far as you know, our conversation goes, I would really be interested to know how much of T I's problems now are related to, the banking structure.

sv	and so if that's true, it may mean that two hundred billion dollar category that went down the tube somewhere.	sd	it really hurts me, to realize that a lot of people out there are trying to retire on their home values.

bh	I know what you mean.	sd	one of our senior,

qy	but are they pretty good up there?	nn	No.

b	really.	sd	Our economy in Colorado Springs fell completely apart.

sd	Well we're in the metroplex here, you know,	b	Right.

sd	And, I don't know how, Bell didn't get it.	sd	Seattle.

sd	And, they advertised that it was T I Bell and then all of a sudden, Secorski got it, yeah.	^2	Secorski Boeing.

 o	Okay.	sd^t	Well, discussing air pollution today, I guess.

b	Uh huh.	ad	well, give me your first impressions.

sv	there's a lot of air pollution.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think industries and companies provide a lot of it	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, I guess with the oil burning over in Kuwait and stuff, that would have a lot of air pollution in it.	sv	gets a whole new picture to what real air pollution can be,

sd	I'm north of Pittsburgh,	bk	Okay,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, in Dallas, we've just, brought in a whole new set of requirements on inspections and things like that for cars, because, people just don't use mass transit and stuff in Dallas.

sd	and like they get fined whenever they do the air pollution	b	Uh huh.

sv	but the fine is nothing, you know,	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah,	ba	That's true,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	there were always E P A people and what not were always telling us that, farm chemicals and what not were destroying our water system and all that

b	Uh huh.	sd	but we just never saw the results.

ba	my God .	sv	I don't think Dallas is considered, a real bad place for air pollution,

 b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it's a little, it's a little disappointing sometimes you start to realize what you're breathing.

sv	but you know, that doesn't seem to stop them there	b	Right.

sd	I don't know what else they can do.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, let the natural systems take care of the problem as much as possible.

sv	I don't think it's something that people really think about, either.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't think we really have too much control over it.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's kind of like,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, there's a lot of things like that.

sd	Well, I really don't know too much else about it.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, we've done a lot to take care of it.

sd	and and you just have smoke going out into the air for a day or two, until you can get it fixed.	b	sure.

sd	so, you know, it's something we have tried to help.	ba	there's no doubt about it.

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know if you ever happened to see some of the like, Twenty Twenty and what not about Rumania and East Germany when they first got pictures out of there about how some of their systems had been running for twenty and thirty years

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, they had absolutely no regulations, no controls whatsoever,

fc	It's been nice talking to you.	fc	Well, you bet.

fc	bye bye.	fc	Bye.

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	Well, Jean, the subject is jury trials

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now my personal opinion,

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's just not right.

sv	I think I agree with that very much.	sv	And therefore I think juries should be able to recommend sentencing.

qy	and it's for them to believe that somebody else could do the things that have been done?	ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've never done it myself unfortunately,

sd	I never have either.	sd	I wish I could have.

qy@	Is there a reason why you have never, Uh huh.	sd	I've just never been called up.

sd	so I always assumed that that was why I was never called.	sv	Well now, that's possible.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I was called up as an alternate once,

qy	do they have such a thing now as a six man jury?	ng	Not that I know of.

sd	and I wondered if it was true.	b	Uh huh

sd	and that I wasn't sure on either, whether it should be unanimous or not.	sv	well, there again, I suppose it should be.

qy^d	That would mean they all would have to decide one way or the other.	na	Exactly.

b^r	yeah.	sv	that's not too bad in this sense, because you might get someone in their that's a victim of circumstances

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, that's happened and giving them another trial might give them additional time to, prove their innocence.

^2	Bring some of these things out.	aa	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	We can't overlook the fact that there are innocent people that do get involved in jury trials.

sv	since my husband worked as a policeman, I can't believe there are very many people that come to trial that are not guilty of some part of whatever they're accused of.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, I would suppose there are circumstances, you're in the wrong place at the right time, or know the wrong person at the right time.	ba	that's it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	out here in Texas we had a, a, great miscarriage of justice.

b	Uh huh.	sd	a Black man was accused simply because he resembled someone who held up, a, Seven Eleven, I think it was.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And even though he had witnesses that said that, he was at work,

qy^d	They still found him guilty?	na^m	They found him guilty.

qy^d	When people said he was at work?	na	Well, they said this happened during lunch time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he could have gotten away at lunch time and committed the robbery.

b	Yeah.	sd	But after nine years,

sd	So there's nine years of that man's life gone.	ba	Exactly.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Now that just was not fair.

sv	we bend over backwards protecting the guilty people, the one's that are on trial.	b	Yes.

sv	And, And we often forget about the one the injustice has been done because I they still say our system is the best in the world.	sv	Unfortunately, that's what happens.

sv	I think they've lost sight of some things that are very important to our country.	sv	the, the First Amendment definitely says freedom of speech

b	Uh huh.	 +	not freedom of action.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, well that just rancles me

sv	but I don't know if I'd go that far.	sd	Well, I happen to be a flag freak.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I was in Korea

b	Uh huh.	 sd	and, well, I saw what the red in the flag represents.

sv	It's important in so many facets of our lives.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, I feel like if people don't like what our flag stands for, they're welcome to go some place else.	b	Yeah,

sv	There's nobody holding them here.	sv	See how they'd like it under another flag.

sv	I'm sure.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	Well, Jean, we seem to be of the same opinions here.

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	I hope they get something out of this.

qy	do you think that's good you know, like if a jury,	qy	 passing sentence? Well, yes,

ny	Uh huh.	sv	but I think the jury should be able to recommend,

qy^d	Make a recommendation?	ny	Yes.

qy	Do they sometimes make a recommendation?	ny	yes,

sd	That's what I was thinking they sometimes do.	sd	I don't know if that's a regular procedure or what.

sd	And then the judge has the final decision on what does really happen. Yeah.	b	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They may not know that if you give him twenty years he can get out in five.

sv	It depends on you know, what they'd been guilty of, and a lot of different things, I guess.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And there are bad ones that do slip back out and end up hurting somebody again.	b	Yes.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	well, they say after three offenses its automatically life in prison,

sv	it seems sometimes that like somebody who is stealing a loaf of bread to feed his family got more jail sentence than somebody maybe that killed somebody.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It doesn't make sense.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Race or nationality even.

b	yeah.	sv	But, like you said, it's not the best system,

b	right.	b	Uh huh.

 sv	Improve it if we can, if we ever get a chance.	 ba	Sure enough.

fc	and I hope you have a real good day and week.	fc	Well let's hope neither one of us ever has to run into this subject we were discussing.

fc	I hope not.	fc	Take care now.

fc	You, too.	fc	Bye.

qw	what major changes have affected your life?	sd	Well, I think that, women working is the one that really affects me most strongly right now.

qr	You mean yourself, or women in general?	sd	Well, women in general, and also myself.

 b	Uh huh.	sd	But, it used to not really make a difference to me,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and right now I'm kind of stuck because I'd like to have children,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, in our society right now that's really something that's, not respected,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, there's a great deal of sacrifice that has to be made on the part of a family if the wife is going to actually be a mother.

sv	and I'm sure you've labelled the cause, because what strikes me the most in the changes in society is the way kids behave.	b	Uh huh,

sv	and there's just no respect for people or property,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I guess, you know, when you stop to think of it, these kids have probably been deprived of a lot of attention that they've needed all their lives.	b	Uh huh,

sv	Scary,	sd	I just wish there was a way,

qw	But for how many years?	sd	I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I'm sure until at least school age, and maybe longer.

ba	that's great.	sv	What this does is, it allows the government to subsidize her to be the mother of her children rather than to subsidize child care

 b	Uh huh.	 +	to raise the child for her.

 b	Right.	 sv	And I think that that's a much, much more viable solution, really.

sd	and so I'd be gone, you know, an hour and fifteen minutes or something at a stretch.	b	yeah,

sd	and you know, nobody seemed to have a big problem with that .	b	Uh huh.

sv	So. That's an interesting issue though.	^h	goodness,

sv	But I think you put your finger on it, when you said that they're not respected if they don't work, because it seems to me that a lot of people I know, women I know, are doing very menial jobs in a certain sense, certainly financially	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I mean, when I see the amount of clothes that they buy and how much it costs them to buy fast food on the way home I'm sure that they're not quote making money for the family on this	b	Yeah,

sv	and probably you're right.	sv	I don't see how they could be, especially not if they have to pay for child care.

sd	I mean, you know, when I think of this one friend who makes probably twenty thousand dollars a year, I'm sure she spends at least that in clothes, plus, you know, fast food every day, and out to lunch every day,	b	Uh huh.

sv	our society demands women to work if they're going to be respected.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Really sad .	b	Yeah,

ba	that's true.	sv	some people now it seems like are turning back toward actually trying to find out what they're in it for, instead of just,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, it's just a place to go, to visit, to wear your nice clothes, and to sit around and talk,

sv	so that might be a positive change in society.	b	Yeah,

sd	I guess I haven't seen that as much in this area, although every now and then you hear about it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	there are those people who have had serious questions all along, and, you know, are sort of pursuing it	 b	Uh huh.

sv	and I thought it was more because of the very transient nature of the area and that people were going basically just as you said, as a social to meet people, and that,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and there are a lot of things changing, I suppose,	b	Yeah.

sv	Just, you know, the whole environment, I find sort of, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, young people that I know are getting very serious diseases	b	yes.

b	Probably.	sv	Maybe not as much as now

sv^t	Well, I guess we've sort of run dry a little bit.	b	Okay .

fc	It was nice talking to you.	fc	Nice to talk to you.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

ad	I'll let you go ahead .	aa	Okay.

b	uh huh.	sd	my oldest two are already out and about in the world

b	Oh.	sd	and, my youngest is twelve.

sd	I always thought it'd be great to have twins.	b	yeah.

b	Well, yeah	sd	at any rate, my first two children, I didn't spend a whole lot of time with them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, was a problem with having five children needing to work a full time job that, was more than a full time job.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I, worked about fifty one hours a week, because I worked eleven hours every Sunday.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, so I didn't get to spend as much time with them as I should have, as I really wanted to.

qy	Your first ones you mean, it, was this way?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it was, more an impact, I think, on the oldest two.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because, about the time I got out of working that long hours was when the twins were about three years old.

b	Oh.	sd	You know, with all the children around the house, it's, kind of hard to notice that Dad isn't around, very much.

b	Right.	sd	so, what I've tried to do, now that I've,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, so, then I came out and was making as much money forty hours a week as I did fifty one hours, a week.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I've tried to spend more time with, the children since then.

b	Uh huh.	sd	what I'm currently doing is, taking a lot of time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so, every couple of weeks we will go to the movies because that's how often they change the, movies.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it's working out pretty well.

b	Uh huh.	sd	in fact, I found that I'm a lot closer with,

b	Huh.	sd	he's taken off for parts unknown,

ba	That's difficult.	aa	but, yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	and, my daughter has moved out of the house.

b	Uh huh	sd	And so it's, it's, it's been difficult to try to find the time,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I noticed parents not spending time with their, children and going out and doing things.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, I knew like the kids next door were all into cocaine

b	uh huh.	sd	I saw the family falling apart down, there.

sd	but drugs in Texas, are extremely bad.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm doing my best to keep that up.

sd	Well, that's all you can do.	b	Yeah.

qy	Well, I was going to ask, too, does your wife work?	na	she didn't up until the last, six months.

qy^d	She just recently started working then.	na^m	She just recently, started working.

b	Uh huh.	sd	she worked a job until we moved to our new house

sd	Well, we also have five children.	b	Huh.

sv	When you have younger ones to take care of, you maybe sometimes do not take as much time for the older ones.	b	Yeah.

sd	and those activities helped a lot in, giving us things to do with the children.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	T lives in Pittsburgh, you probably don't know where that is.	na	Certainly do.

sd	He works right on the border of D C.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and our baby lives just a mile over the hill , so, we'll get to see her a little more than, what we do the other ones.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, they have to.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, he worked a full time job and a part time job,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I never saw him.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I didn't have much of a role model to go by. {D You, know, } to learn how to be a father and, a parent, and that kind of thing, because, I can't ever remember playing ball with my dad or, catch with my dad, or doing anything with my dad.

sv	And that does make a big difference.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, everybody's not FATHER KNOWS BEST.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sv	Let's face it, you know, we're not none of us like they portray it on those shows.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, life's much more difficult than that.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm kind of old fashioned, I guess, that way.	b	Yes.

sd	I don't think I ever would have had what it would take to work full time and raise a family.	b	Yes.

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, I've helped out extremely,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, as you know, with five children it takes a lot of work.

sd	It does, it,	sv	Even, if, even if someone's home all the time, there's still a lot of things that have to be done.

o@	and, * slash error  okay.	sd	well, now I work for Texas Instruments.

sd	A lot of the people I've talked to work for, for the same.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	Which your income would be a lot better, now.	o@	* slash error right. / * slash error

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	 I was more intelligent than the position I was holding.

sv	And it's, kind of a waste of a person.	aa	Yes.

o	You know.	sd	I mean, I was smarter than most of the people that I was working for.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, every time something new came up, I was explaining it to them.

qy^d	And you, you recognized this and, was able to, you know, do something about it.	o	No .

sv	Well, it puts a strain on everybody, your wife and your family.	b	Yeah

sv	And, the only thing you can remember is to try and stay together as much as you can, because it's very easy to, go your own direction when you're working so hard and going to school, too.	b	Yeah

ba	Well, that's wonderful.	sd	So, you know, I got my degree and got the better paying job,

sd	so, he's been retired for three years now.	b	Uh huh.

sv	That's quite a change.	b	Yeah,

sd	well, he made it at fifty .	ba	Great.

sd	and he still works part time at other thing, you know, same job as he was doing, only he's retired and doing it independently.	b	Uh huh.

o	Okay .	qy	Have you ever, organized a family reunion?

sd	But we have one, we are going to have one on Memorial Day, I guess.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They have had one the last two years. We go out to my dad's farm and, you know, it is just a picnic and spend the night. Go fishing and stuff like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	about ten.	sd	it is not that big.

b	Huh uh.	sd	Because, we have had sort of weekends like that too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I sort of think of a reunion with all the extended family .

b	yeah.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it is kind of hard to get everybody organized.

sd	my, dad has a house out there anyway.	sd	he keeps food out there, year round.

b	Uh huh.	qy	so he does not live there though?

sd^e	it is, it is like a country home.	bf	Vacation home.

aa	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	The grandchildren.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So the big family is a lot smaller that it used to be.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It is near Lake Texoma.	b	Uh huh.

sd	all of his children live in the Dallas area too.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	The rest of it is sort of a big void to me.

b	Yeah.	sd	we all got together,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Nice to have everybody together at once and things like that.

qy^d	French reunion?	nd	Well, not quite French,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, it was sort of a reunion before leaving.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So that would be kind of fun.

^2@	Meet in the middle. Uh huh.	b	Yep.

b	Right.	sd	But at least that way it is at nobody's house, so no one person is responsible for everything.

sd	And they do not have to clean up afterwards.	b	Yep.

b	Yeah.	ba	That is for sure.

br	I am sorry?	qy	does your dad have horses there?

sd^e	he does not really have any, domestic livestock anyway.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, he leased, to his neighbor for the cattle to feed on.	bk	I see,

sd	He has a garden and, a lot of fruit trees and blueberry bushes and things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then there is wild blackberries there too.	b	Uh huh.

b	Huh.	sd	So it was not so worth it.

sd	they're kind of off and on it seems like.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Depends on the rain.	ba	That sounds,

na	it is, eighty acres.	ba	Well, that is pretty big .

b	Uh huh.	sd	I do not know how they do scale down there.

b^r	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	you just spend time on maybe ten acres of it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	because that is where the ponds are and where everybody fishes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we have not been able to catch any of the adult bass yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they are in there, but they are real spooky.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they were having problems with too many goldfish because we had put some goldfish in,

b	yeah.	sd	And, somebody suggested to get a bass.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so they went fishing and caught a bass near some place and put it in there and never saw it again .

qy^d	Never saw the bass?	nn	No.

bk	Oh.	sd	So we do not know whether it is living

sv	it is probably in there just burping goldfish.	aa	Yep.

b	Yeah.	sd	We still have lots of little goldfish.

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah,

sd	they really do.	sd	we have got hundreds in there now,

 b	Uh huh.	sd	And, and some of them are probably eight inches long.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But he wants your really big ones, you know, the ones that get to be like a foot and a half long.

sd	And, they routinely use them for bait for, goldfish for bait for yellow catfish.	bk	okay.

sd	They live in the Mississippi River all the way through Minnesota and up into Canada.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because he was trying to catch them, you know, using little,

b@	 Uh huh.	 sd	My father was taking those and trying to catch the goldfish.

sd	That is what happens .	qy	But do you guys have fishing competitions while you are there?

sd	Because they will just come after anything then.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you could catch a couple anyway during that time.	qw	What do you feed them?

sd	it is, catfish food.	bh	Really?

ny	Yeah.	qy^d	And it is especially made for catfish.

sd	Well, I do not know how much different it is from dog food but, you know, it looks like Purina High Pro.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	ba	That is funny.

sd	because they come up to the top, and you can see their whiskers come through the water.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the big catfish just kind of vacuum the top of the water.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I have never seen them, just alive someplace.

ba	Well, they are really funny fish.	b	Uh huh.

sd	When you catch them, they make a kind of a burping, growling sound at you.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they try to hit you with their tails.	qw	How big do they get?

sd	I think the world record is fifty some pounds.	qw@	Okay. But how long in feet?

sd	that is only about three and a half feet long.	 ba	That is pretty big though.

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah.

sd	they get real fat.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they stay slender until they get to be, eighteen inches long, and then they start to widen	 b	Uh huh.

sd	She was fishing for sunfish.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, it was just pulling drag out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it swimmed wherever it wanted to.	b	Yeah.

fc	It was nice talking to you.	fc^m	Nice talking to you too.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Enjoy your, weekend.

fc	Have a nice Memorial weekend.	fc	Okay.

o	Okay.	o	Okay.

b	Yeah.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	qo	how do you feel about it?

sd	I believe in it, too .	b	Uh huh.

sv	you know, on the premeditated murders I feel you know, I mean, if it's beyond a doubt that you did it, you know I would say go ahead and execute that person as well.	b	Uh huh.

qh	Well, you know, you got, you got that point well, you know, what if a mistake is made and you put someone, you know, to death that really didn't do it.	b	Right,

sv	but, I would say that, you know, for that many people to all of them agree that you did it and it was premeditated, it would be kind of hard for, you know,	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	You know what I'm saying?	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't know a judge might be a little more cold blooded about it.

sv	I think maybe last year was the first time in like eighteen years or something like that, that anyone anyone from Pennsylvania had gotten it.	b	Yeah,

qy	do you know if Virginia has it?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	I know Florida has it.	 b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	Course they have such a crime problem because they have such a unemployment rate.

b	you know,	sv	Get that unemployment way up

sv	and you don't really hear about it real often, how many people,	sv	Well, in Florida seems like, two or three times a year.

sv	I mean if you think of how many premeditated murders are committed, you know, compared to that and to how many people are being sent, that doesn't seem like very many.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	 sv	So, of course, the attorneys, take them through the whole chain. You know, even if the case is open and closed,

ba	That's true, too.	sv	they go all the way up to the Supreme Court, you know.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	They almost always get thrown right back out again,

b	Yeah.	sv	Some of these guys are really, you know, violent Son of Sam killers and stuff like that, you know.

sv	And then they get out.	sv	everyone knows they're not going to get out.

sv	they get out in three years on probation,	b	Yeah.

sv	and they do it again, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's like a slap on the fingers for them.	b	Uh huh.

qy	but, are you, would you draw the line there with just the premeditated murder?	na	I think so.

b	Yeah.	sd	a lot of the, the other violent crimes I don't really feel that strongly about.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, these guys are certainly not going to, be,

b	Yeah.	ad	Reduce the violence in the prisons.

b	Yeah.	sv	But some of these guys just don't care, {D you know.

sv	I think some of them would rather be in jail .	b	Yeah,

sv	They probably have it better in jail than what they would out in the streets.	sv	that's possible I guess.

^h	I don't even remember what it was now.	qw	so where do you live in Pennsylvania?

sd	I'm at Clarion University.	bk	okay.

b	Yeah	sv	that all depends, too, on where you are at.

sd	we only have seven thousand students in the entire campus.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we're about two hours north of Pittsburgh if that would help you out any.	br	Two hours where?

sd	North of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.	bk	okay.

no	I've never heard of Polk	sd	Polk Institute.

sd	I never heard of that.	sd	Very old, historical place there.

sd	It might have a new name.	sd	Sharon, Pennsylvania's up there.

b^r	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	We're probably about an hour away from Sharon.	b	okay.

sd	but then after I would say my point of view, then they'll say, well, yeah,	^2	In that case, maybe, you know.

sv	anyone that is like so against it that you couldn't persuade them in any instance.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	like, I don't want that person sharing the Earth with me, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, we had a case like that here

sv@	but you know I look at that and say, well, they should have thought about that beforehand. You know.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv@	You can plea bargain what you're guilty of, but, you know. But not how they're going to sentence you ,

sv	but, whether they plea bargain or not, if they're guilty of murder, they're guilty of murder, you know.	b	Right,

sv	So I don't think that they deserve anything less .	b	Yeah,

h	I don't know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that costs money, yeah.	sd	And perhaps we can

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, although usually the guys that are turning themselves in are guys that are, you know going to get caught anyways

b	Yeah.	sd	we just had a terrible case in Virginia where some girl disappeared

sd	Well, basically I am a mother of a three year old,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I kind of relate to trying to find a good day care because it's, extremely hard thing to do to trust somebody else with your child, trust their emotional and their safety and all the rest of that.	b	Right.

sd	and what I'm finding is with, day cares that are like day care centers like, for instance, Learning Tree or Kinder Care and all of that.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	What I find is that they're highly structured, highly organized. Almost too rigid for the children if you bring a child in at a certain time. like nap time or whatever time, because of parents' hours they are differ ,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Everybody is napping, whether they came there an hour before or they came right during that time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And with that kind of a system my daughter just isn't likely to enjoy it if she has to good there immediately and lay down, on a cot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The only thing is you raise the question of if it's safe, can you trust the people, you know.	ba	That's right.

sd	And, To the point that you kind of say to yourself, especially home day care	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, I think center day cares there's so many people coming in and out that you're better off if you're going to put a child into that type of system for eight hours, it's fine.	b	Right.

sv	but home day care works well if it's an infant.	b	Right.

sv	if it's, if you want to have kind of like a family structuring where there's a home that they can be provided. Because I've seen things at the day care where they can't keep up with all the kids.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The kids have, colds	b	Right.

sd	but, ours are just major credit cards that we have and, use only , when we feel it's necessary to make a big purchase.	b	Yeah,

ny	Yeah.	qy	Do you have department store credit cards too,

sd^e	one Sears.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Sears is pretty major with us simply because we do, Appliances and things like that	^2	Appliances.

sv	and they're real good with their appliance and stuff like that	b	Yeah.

sv	but if it's, any large purchases, you've got to kind of think about, how much you're going to put down as far as, payments on it so that you're not getting eighteen percent or twenty percent interest taken off,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We still pay it off every month if it kills us .

b^r	yeah.	sd	But, we do it mainly for, you know, the cash flow,

b^r	sure.	sd	And, I often will keep track of what I've charged and sometimes deduct it from my checkbook already.

b	Sure,	sd	and keep a list and make sure I I don't go over a certain limit. Especially around birthdays, you know.

aa	Exactly.	b	Oh.

aa^r	Exactly .	sd	If we go out to a restaurant, just to float it,

sv	Or, if it's a business transaction a lot of times that's important, too to keep a better receipt of it.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Even if we have the,

aa	Exactly.	sd	We have a new one from A T AND T

b	yeah.	sv	Be interesting,

b	sure.	sd	It's a Mastercard, too,

b	yeah.	sv	It's kind of fun,

sd	or it's preapproved for,	b	Yeah,

sv	that's to entice you to get more credit cards.	^q	We'll give you five thousand dollars up front .

sd	I mean, you know, you always constantly getting those preapproved stuff,	b	Right.

sd	ours is through a bank, yeah. * should they 'yeah' be a seperate slash unit?	b	Yeah.

sd	We had it a long time ago through a bank	b	Yeah.

sv	that's exactly it	b	Yeah.

fc	Okay.	fc	Well, it sounds like I'm being paged otherwise.

fc	Okay.	fc	So .

fc	thanks a lot.	fc	Good talking to you.

qy	Can you think of anything else that's happened recently?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think something will have to be done down there very soon about Mexico and, some of the other areas,

sv	and, and they made references to in the past, how we have given arms to, Nicaragua and to other places in Latin America, and that those might turn around and haunt us someday.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, not to this large scale as Iraq,	b	Uh huh.

sv	whenever we give arms to people, as we did, and as we sold arms pardon me, to Iraq, when we wanted them to fight Iran, and then it turn around and,	b	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, it will come back to haunt us,

sd	the time that I've studied in Mexico, Spanish was one of my majors in college, there was a kind of a lot of resentment there towards America,	b	Uh huh.

sv	our interest there is, you know, what profit we could make off of any kind of relationship with them,	b	Right.

sd	I mean, there's just very few really modern cities.	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sv	especially Columbia, is so built on t , on the drugs, that, our little war on drugs has really been laughable.

sv	and so many communities have to have that for farming .	b	Right,

sv	And they don't look at it so much as, you know,	sv	And as long as we're the largest, consumer, then, this is the market.

ba	That's right.	sv	If we can cut back the usage, then maybe it will have to go someplace else.

sv	And I think it's really very sad that north of the border, you know, the United States and Canada is so different, from South America, and Central America.	b	Uh huh.

sv	There's really a disparity between what I would call civilization of the countries, you know.	b@	Right, yeah, / * should this be two slash units?

b	Uh huh.	 +	and, there has to be resentment built up,

sv	it's really kind of sad, that we would go all the way to Iraq and that we would be very concerned with the situation between Jerusalem and, Israel and the Middle East Arab countries, and when we have a lot of problems, r , right in our own back door.	b	Yeah.

sv	So I guess we've kind of neglected Latin America.	sv	Very much so, except when we need them.

^2	recently ,	b	Yeah.

 %	but I,	aa	Okay.

sd	made me stop and think a minute about, not worrying so much about the Middle East crisis.	ba	Sure did.

sd	I know that it's not settled but, there are other areas that we could focus our attention on.	aa	Always,

fc	you have a good day.	fc	You too, dear.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qw	Well, what kind of garden do you have?	sd	Well, we've tried having,

b	Oh.	sd	We had to put so much poison out on everything that we thought, Who'd want to eat that stuff.

 b^r	uh huh.	sd	You know, so we have really been frustrated by our gardening attempts here,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, right now we're just,

qy	Do you have a lawn?	b	Yeah,

b	yeah.	b^r	yeah.

sd	And, the peonies have been out for now about three weeks	ba	wow.

sd	and of course I've got lots of weeds in mine because, I don't use any poison either.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	and I say, Jeez, you know, this is the first year it's been so perfect.	b	Really.

sd	my tomatoes are two and a half feet tall	ba	boy

^q	we'll have a freeze.	sd	If you don't have a frost you'll be all right .

sd	and sure enough, you know, we had really mild weather until I think it was May or something	ba	Wow.

sd	and then, you know, everything just got hit hard .	ba	boy,

sd	My son does the mowing of the grass.	b	yeah,

sd	I don't think that's a pleasure for anybody, the mowing.	sd	I love gardens that are well tended,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I do admire that, but I haven't really put, too much energy into it.

sv	they help you.	sd	So that has put a crimp in my every activity other than diapers and laundry, I'll tell you .

sv	I mean the peach tree is a start	sd	that's really lovely.

qy	aren't they pretty hardy?	sd	we've tried them,

 b	Oh.	sd	We've tried them in kind of halfway in the shade and halfway in the s ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	People that have been successful out here have done this drip irrigation and installed that,

b	Oh.	sv	and that's really what makes the most sense,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it really does the job.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's just too distracting right now with these little ones in our lives,

 sv	I mean, you've got three or four months you're talking about of bad weather.	 b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it just, immediately heats up.

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	We always had gardens when I was, living in Chicago.

ba	dear.	sd	but she used to love to do stuff like that.

ba	Sounds like it would have been pretty.	b	Yeah,

ba^r	sure.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, it sounds like you've got your hands full .	aa	yes .

sv	but it's not off the list.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	 +	you know.

b	Oh.	sd(^q)	He thought, what are these fun toys that mommy put out here with all these colors for me to play with?

sv	Maybe next year they'll do better.	b	Yeah,

fc	well, thanks.	fc	Nice talking to you.

o	Okay.	o	All right.

sd	Capital punishment.	qo	what's your views on it?

sv	but we seem to have a duality of, in this country where most states in theory have it, but, but do not use it.	aa	Correct.

sv	Texas uses it about as much as any other state.	b	Well, yeah

sd	Texas is a big state,	sv	which is not very often.

sd	people are sometimes sentenced to capital punishment, but no one actually has the sentence carried out.	qy	What do they do, just keep them on death row for the rest of their life.

sd^e	I think so.	b	Uh huh.

sv	the sentence of life without possibility of parole, has become a common one, and is being used much more.	qy	Do you have the overcrowding in your prisons that we are facing down here?

sd^e	prisons are overcrowded.	sd	I know that we have, you know,

sd	you're certainly in the majority at least in this country.	b	Yes.

sv	we are, I guess, the only one of the major Western nations currently with capital punishment.	sv	they do not have it in Europe, as I understand.

sv	but they certainly have lower crime rates and lower murder rates.	b	Yes,

sv	we tend to be skeptical.	qy	Well, England don't they have a fairly large welfare?

qy	however the question is is that making the difference.	no	I don't know.

b	Oh.	sv	if both do and they tend to have less crime, you wonder if that has anything to do with it then,

sv	I think that idea is even more common in Western Europe.	qy	do you?

ny	Uh huh.	ba	Well, that's interesting.

sd	Me, too.	sd	all I know is that, for instance we were in Germany in,

ad	you want to start first ?	aa	Of course.

b	Right.	sd	and, as a matter of fact, I can tell you something about that.

qy^d	You apparently have somebody there, in one.	nn	No,

qy	you are kidding?	nn	No,

b	Oh.	sd	And then my mother also owned and operated a nursing home, for years. And then, went on back to school and became the director of nurses at a nursing home .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, my mother and my older sister both are geriatric nurses.

ba	for heaven's sake.	sd	So, I do know something about that.

sv	You are very, very much aware of what goes on.	aa	Absolutely.

ba	That is great.	sd	Actually, the motivation for Grandmother entering the business, was that her mother was very old, and couldn't seem to find companions.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	She was lonely.

b	Right.	sd	And she needed company, for her mother

b	Right.	sd	and so she opened a nursing home and initially started with eight ladies.

ba	I will be darned.	sd	And then, it grew into a, very prosperous business from that point.

sv	Now, see that is a nice attitude to go into.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it seems like they must be waiting until it is a necessity	b	Uh huh.

sv	and there is no chance of, good companionship or doing anything.	ad	Well, that is not really true, either,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You see, those who had bad experiences talk about them.

b^r	right.	sd	And those who do not may write, a letter to the nursing home and say you did good,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they do not talk a whole lot about that.

sd	But what I mean is instead of maybe entering a nursing home, when you are still able to have good,	b	Uh huh.

 +	relationships with, maybe other friends they wait until they are, you know, unable.	b	Uh huh.

b^r	right.	sd	However, my daughter in law also is a nurse in a nursing home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, she works for one here in Dallas, which is more a retirement village than it is a nursing home.

b	uh huh.	sd(^q)	I love watching these elderly people come, they will come and tell her. "Well I am going for my, tennis lessons.

b	Uh huh.	^q	And, would you, you know, call down and have the van come around and take, us for our tennis lessons."

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And they are very active and very enthusiastic

b	Yeah.	sv	Their dining room looks like, you know, Luby's Cafeteria.

ba	That is great.	sd	or one of the lovely cafeterias.

ba	that sounds great.	sv	I am certainly very much for a nursing home

b	Uh huh.	sv	It is expensive.

sv	See if they could get this idea across though, better than what it is, you, know.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She still had her individuality,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they were there close

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they have security.

b	Uh huh.	b	No,

sd	well you have that with anything.	sd	I know that the elderly can easily be abused,

b	yeah .	sd	but I would be willing to bet they are far less abused in a nursing home than they are in, homes of their own children.

sd	Well,	b	Uh huh.

sd	like when my sister was real bad before she died we took her the last month and a half, into a nursing home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they were super with her.	aa	Absolutely.

sd	They were,	sd	Well now, my grandmother,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my grandmother developed Hodgkin's Disease, when she was in her late eighties, late seventies, I mean.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She went to the doctor,

b	Uh huh.	sd	She got better,

sd	They , left them temporally maybe they had a, broken hip or something or,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it is a place that you do not have to struggle with hospital, problems

b^r	uh huh.	sv	and yet it is not, you know,

sd	And it can become home to them.	b	Uh huh,

sv	It, It depends upon the individual.	ba	It certainly is.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I might, I might like to be, coherent enough to make my own choice.

b^r	uh huh.	sd(^q)	I would not particularly think I would want my kids to say, "well, I think this is what I need for Mom", and, then dump me there.

sv	There has to be consideration taken on everything.	ba	That is right.

b	Yeah.	 +	or a doctor or anything else.

sv	you would look into it thoroughly and, do the best job you could in choosing one.	b	Uh huh,

sd	that is what, I am saying,	ba	That is right.

sv	most people will not even look at that until it becomes a necessity.	ba	Absolutely.

b	Uh huh.	ad	Go out to the nursing home, help guide some craft programs, perhaps, work on some music programs, whatever their talents are. And work with, those senior citizens.

sd	and he did fine,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they lived on a farm,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but she made arrangements, so that when she was gone, she did not want her children, her other children burdened with his care.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So they, she has made arrangements that when she was gone, that he would go into the nursing home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, he, he has been there quite a long time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, he don't know me usually .	b	Yeah.

sd	Somebody else, is helping him out, you know,	ba	That is right.

aa	Yes.	sv	Routine and, constancy.

b^r	uh huh	sd	the only real problem with that in a nursing home is that the staff turns over.

ba	True.	sv	and that is sad, because, I think the health profession is one of the most critical,

sv	But , for some reason people resist, the fact that they should be paid as well as businesses and that type of thing, you know.	ba	That is right.

sv	It seems to be a resistance.	sv	Care for the elderly and care for the children, I cannot imagine a more costly and a more, a more, better area to invest,

b^r	right.	 +	your money.

sv	But there seems to be a resistance.	sv	You are preserving your heritage and your future there.

b^r	yeah.	sv	And, as a matter of fact, I do not see why they do not have children's programs in nursing homes.

sd	Well, around here, we have some, you know, the churches, take the children	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I know our kids thoroughly,	b	Uh huh.

o	Okay .	qy^t	Was I supposed to do something?

sd^t	I had to press one.	ba	Good .

na	Sure.	qy	Should we have been there?

ny	Uh huh.	qy	Did we do what was correct there?

sv	I think we should have stayed longer.	qy	Should we have fought them harder?

sv	but I think we just should have stayed there longer and continued doing what we did do.	qy^d	you agree with Schwartzkopf who says, Drive on into Baghdad.

sv	and there is not going to be anything left of Iraq at all .	qy	Would that be so bad?

sv	Well, I don't think it would be good if we were to completely lose it,	sv	It wasn't ours.

sv	I just mean that, the world in general .	sv	We've got to talk so it's just as well we argue.

sv	I think we should have helped the innocent people in Iraq out a little bit more, rather than just quitting where we did.	aa	I agree.

sv	But I think that's almost impossible, next to impossible.	b	Yeah.

qw	What did he say about it?	sv	he wanted to take the current secondary highway system and turn it into interstates like the rest of the country.

sv	We don't have the money for that.	qy^d	But wouldn't it be wonderful.

na	It would be really nice because I'm kind of tired of driving in pot holes .	qy^g	And back east, you all drive at fifty five, don't you?

fa^c	I'm sorry, I dropped the phone .	bk	okay,

ny	Yeah.	sd	See, out here in the west a lot of our secondary roads are fifty five

b	Uh huh.	sd	we drive sixty five.

b	really.	ny	yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, between here and west Texas, there was probably three and four hours at sixty five miles an hour.

nn	huh uh.	qw	How far west have you been?

sd	Only in Ohio.	qy^d	you've never, You've never seen the great American desert.

sd	I've seen,	qy^d	The Rocky Mountains?

sd	I've seen pictures of it	qy^d	Yellowstone?

sd	and we we're never able to take vacations because there's twelve kids in the family.	sd	Well, my college educa , thirty six,

ba	my.	sd	know, virtually nothing else.

b	Uh huh.	b	yeah.

b	Really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	In fact, down in east Texas where the company's located there's streams and water and things I don't understand. Trees and the gulf

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it's really interesting.

b	Uh huh.	ad	So tell me about where you live.

sd	And, it's pretty, like, windy and hilly.	qw	how high is the highest elevation?

sd	It wouldn't be like a mountain.	qy^d	three thousand feet?

sd	I have no clue.	qy^d	Close to sea level?

na	I would say it's closer to sea level.	b	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	b	yes

b	Uh huh.	qw	How many hours have you been from home?

qy^d	the farthest away from home?	ny	Yes.

sd	Probab , I'd say five or six.	b	yeah.

ny	Uh huh.	sd	now when I was growing up in the Panhandle of Texas,

b	Uh huh.	sd	To just go buy a pair of jeans, we'd drive an hour.

ba	my Gosh.	sd	When I was growing up, Now things are different

b	Uh huh.	sd	and people buy jeans in town,

sd	Now see for me, that's a long ways.	aa	Yeah.

sv	So that will give you some idea of where I'm at.	b	Okay.

sd	And I'm about, I'm about two hours north east of Pittsburgh.	b	Okay,

sd	I mean, there's just no one around.	qy	So are you working your way through college?

sd	and between what I make in the summer and student loans, that's how I go to college.	ba	Well, how neat.

sd	Finance.	b^m	Finance.

b	Uh huh.	ba	Well, that's interesting.

b	Uh huh.	qw	So, what do you plan to do with it?

sd	well, like I said my fianc3ee, * typo	qy^d	Savings and loans,

sd	I'd rather work for a company and, like be their financial advisor or something.	ba	that would be great.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Apple Computer is coming to town.

b	really.	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we're expecting our local economy to , Well, maybe not a boom, but, at least, recover to where we can all hold regular forty hour jobs still.

qw	Well, well what would be the unemployment rate out there?	sd	unemployment runs approximately six percent.

sd	See that's what it is here too.	sd	But, now under employment I would suspect to run closer to eighteen or twenty percent.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the problem is that there are no good permanent full time jobs for people without a technical four year degree.

fp	Hi, Kay.	fp	Hi.

qw	I, was thinking about salaries and benefits and was wondering what's the most important thing to you besides a salary in a job.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah	sd	So I you know, didn't want him to have a job that would make him kind of be on call all the time, and have to go in at any time, and you know, even on the weekends and things.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that was important to me, and also insurance for our family because we'd like to be able to take care of our medical needs and not be thinking so much about whether or not you can afford it.

sd	you know we have that Aetna	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's the insurance that we have right now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	When we were in Colorado, they had, a different type of H M O there that I really liked a lot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was, not that kind of H M O s where you have to go to their sort of like clinics, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it was with a certain list of doctors that, you know, participated in the H M O,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, then you only had to pay the,	ba	Well, that's nice.

sd	for us it was a five dollar co payment every time you went to the doctor, and, three dollars for the prescriptions.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And, I especially liked the prescription, especially since my children tend to have ear infections all the time .	b	Uh huh.

sd	those prescriptions can be very expensive.	ba	I know.

sv	especially if you get, what is it, Seclor I think that that just about breaks the bank right there.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	 %	and we wanted to be able to go in and have our teeth cleaned and just checked all over

qy	Do, Do you have the basic plan or do you have the other one?	sd	We have, you know

na	Right.	sd	I don't think it's the basic,

sd	they'll pay a little bit more I think for the different procedures.	b	Uh huh.

sd	A couple of times we've had to pay, I don't know, three to five dollars but that's not that bad.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we don't like him to be, you know, having to drive an hour to work or something .

sd	we don't like that either .	sd	So we kind of looked for where his office would be located

b^r	uh huh.	 +	and so by living in Plano we're just about fifteen minutes away.

 b	that's not bad.	sv	especially when they finish all the construction out here

b	Right.	sd	and we didn't want him you know, to,

ba	you're not kidding.	sv	and not only is it, you know, trouble to have to drive, but it takes time away from your home and your family when you're out driving.

ba	That's right.	sd	And, so, that was something that was important to us,

sd	Well, those are some of the things that are very important to us too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the athletic facilities that you sometimes take advantage of I think that's pretty nice,	b	Uh huh.

sv	But that's a nice benefit to have.	aa	Uh huh,

b	Right.	sd	was there somewhere to go.

sd	I mean they're going through some tough times to say the least.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	job. one of the drawbacks, I think, of working for a big company, is often times, you do have to follow pretty rigid, guidelines,	aa	Yes,

sv	A lot of times smaller companies have bonus plans, where I think in a large company it's hard to do that because there're just so many people to deal with	b	Uh huh.

sv	that's one of the things that happens when you're dealing with a large company.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	 +	and that there would be some opportunity for friendships that way, so that you would feel happy going to work every day Rather than thinking I can't stand these people.

o@	Right . * slash error How long has he been in his present position?	sd	But, so that's something that was important to him, in thinking he could work under.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's only been, not even a year yet,

sv	In a big company, though, you also get moved around a lot .	b	Yes, well.

sd	He may be having to drive over here to Lewisville some time.	b	yeah.

sv	you never know.	b^m	You never know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so we have a lot of family here, his side of the family.

b	Right.	sd	And although we had really good friends and we had church and school support and things, we were anxious to move close to family members, just because we wanted our children to know their grandparents and things like that.

sd	We're very,	sd	So, that really made a big difference, I think, in why we chose T I, and chose to move this way.

sd	In fact, this is a little off the topic, but yesterday, my mother happened to be on a train going from Phoenix back to Chicago	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we went downtown, and met her train for half an hour, and brought her a little snack and an Easter basket	ba	that's nice.

sd	I mean, just for us to snatch a half hour like that is a special occasion for us.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's nice. It's nice that you can have your family close like that.	sd	We're really enjoying it.

sd	sometimes it can be.	sd	But it's turned out really good,

b	Okay .	fc	Well I've really enjoyed the conversation.

fc	Well, I have too.	fc	And, nice to have met you,

fc	you too.	fc	Bye bye.

 ad	now you can tell me what you do.	sd	well, I work with computers, just like your son

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I actually do research in speech recognition

ba	great.	sd^t	part of the reason I'm participating in the project is to see how the stuff goes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I was working

b	Uh huh.	sd	but hopefully the job that I will have will have lots of benefits namely lots of vacations not real good salary but lots of vacations.

sd	and the pay is decent.	b	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sv	because health care is so ridiculously expensive.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	we actually had a little baby so I'm taking a little bit of a time off from work.

sd	I had a granddaughter .	ba	congratulations.

b	Right.	sd	and you know, our routine doctor's visits covered,

qy	Do you have major medical benefits?	na	Right, yeah,

sv	it depends on what your deductible is how high it is.	b	Right.

sd	that's pretty high,	b	Right

b	Right.	sd	it doesn't cover doctor's visits, things like that.

sd	And five hundred dollars is a lot to come up with for each person to be able to start using your major medical, too.	aa	yeah,

sd	course we live in a rural sort of setting	b	Uh huh.

sd	and where she works she has no benefits at all.	ba	Wow.

sd	And her wage is not very good .	b	Uh huh.

sd	Of course, living expenses aren't as bad either, though, which makes a difference.	sv	And probably the medical care is less expensive, too.

sd	Well, she has to pay for it herself	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, they have to pay for their own insurance.	sd	So I think that in general the doctor's fees are probably lower there,

sd	they're not that much different.	sd	Well, I know that friends of mine had a baby up in Boston

b	Uh huh.	sd	and their costs were about fifty percent of what it cost to have it in Manhattan.

bh	Is that right?	sd	And they were at one of the better hospitals, you know

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, good doctors in Boston.

ba	that's a big difference.	sd	And I was at one of the big hospitals in New York.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But that's a huge difference just between

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, and it's two big cities that I think of as somewhat comparable.

sv	should be.	sd	So I was pretty shocked at that.

b@	Yes. Uh huh.	sd	because it would be really nice to be able to have, you know, someone that could watch my daughter at work.

 ^2^r	it would be more convenient, too.	sv	It would be more convenient, more productive I think,

sd	they have to take their two children to day care, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	getting them there and going to work, and then picking them up and, all the preparations.	^2	and your hours are, much more constrained and things like that.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	those three things, the health care, vacation, and day care are probably the most important benefits.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I suppose I should be concerned with life insurance and, retirement plans

sv	I think those benefits you mentioned, sometimes they're even more important than the wage itself.	b	Yeah.

sv	they come out to a much better benefit than an increase in your wage a lot of times.	b	Right

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I would certainly accept a lower salary for that. You know, everything else being equal

sv	it would make it a lot better.	sv	because your life would be so much easier.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And there's a question of quality of life also.

sv	well, and if it was there, you would really have a little more, knowledge on what's going on probably, you know, with your child.	b	Yeah.

b	yeah.	sv	But unfortunately, there aren't,

sd	and they, where she works they don't have anything like that.	b	Uh huh.

ng	Pittsburgh.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.	b	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sv	But you know, I wouldn't be surprised if thing's like that didn't happen more in smaller communities before they happen in bigger ones. Just because people might be more flexible in smaller locations and things like that.

b	Yeah,	sd	Because many times small companies offer better benefits in terms of quality of life than larger companies.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Like, one company had proposed to me that I could come back to work after having the baby, any where between ten and forty hours a week. And, call my own days, call my own hours,

sd	so they were very flexible	b	Yeah,

sv	and that would be great,	sv	many times at a large company it's almost impossible to do things like that.

sv	They say you're going to do it this way, and that's the way it's going to be.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	And if you get two weeks off, you get two weeks off and you're not allowed two weeks and one day.

b^r	yeah.	sv	So it all depends on what your position is there, too.

sv	well, that's true in any company, I think.	b	Yeah.

sd	I've maybe worked five years out of our married life you know, out of the home	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, the rest of the time I've been an Avon lady and a lady.	qy	Was that when you were, well,

sd	and you have to take care of any benefits you want yourself,	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we tried to argue that he should get more salary for that

b	Uh huh.	 +	than what he is

 sv	Usually consultants make very good income.	b	Right,

bh	Is that right?	sd	Because they say they can't pay more than this and that, and they're not allowed to pay him more than what his previous salary was and things like that

b	Uh huh.	 sd	and, you know, times are rough now,

sv	A consultant really should be more knowledgeable than everybody else, you know	aa	Yeah,

sv	so it stands to reason they should really have more benefits.	b	Right,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And, they pay him as a consultant but he doesn't get any health benefits,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So really his salary should be, you know, twenty percent or thirty percent higher just based on that, not including the fact that you know, it's a long term commitment for the company and all that sort of stuff.

o	Okay.	qy	Are you a T I er?

nn	No.	b^m	No.

sd	and that's how he got it.	bk	okay,

sd	I just graduated from college.	sv	So you don't have any benefits at all to talk about.

aa	No.	ad	You're just going to have to imagine what you would like as benefits .

^2	Or, what I'm looking for.	bk	okay,

nn	huh uh.	qy^d	Didn't get that far.

nn	No.	sv	you normally just try to sell them on your, aptitude and not, you know, well how much vacation do I get .

sd	I've heard of that.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now they're going to start to do the same kind of thing with doctors.

b	Yeah.	sd	If you go to a doctor who isn't in the network then it will be less benefits that you get.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We have some dental coverage now,

ba	it can .	sd	I pay for the extra dental plus, so much more per month because it always seems like if you're going to have a crown or something major done it pays a little more.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we do have pension, although I've realized recently that the pension doesn't seem to be too good

ad	I like to think about that.	sv(^q)	After you've been working for a while and you look at your pension account and you go, is that all that's in there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, that grows pretty good

b	Uh huh.	sd	Of course you can buy stock in the company,

^2	Not always safe .	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And we ge , you know, vacation normally after you're here for six months

ba	that's nice.	sv	Which, a lot of places make you work like ten years or so, before you get that much.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we get, decent holidays.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that's nice, so you always get two days at Christmas.

b	Yeah.	sd	You only have to take three days of vacation

sd	Well there's twelve kids in my family.	ba	Whoa, okay!

sd	So the dental was very important, you know, to my dad.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's, you know, it's just another, you know telephone network.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but now I think they're going to start getting into eye.	b	yeah.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So you can get glasses and contacts and stuff through those particular stores or something like that.

sd@	But my fianc3e, he's on that same kind of pension as what you said only, for everything he puts in they'll match it, up to a certain amount.	b	Yeah

sd	Like if he puts in a dollar they'll put in a dollar, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they'll match it.	b	Uh huh.

qy	did you ever hear of the National Bureau of Standards?	ny	Yeah.

sd	and he'll be getting three weeks vacation.	b	Gee,

sd	and he has all the holidays off.	b	Right,

sd	and it only costs a dollar as long as they go to that doctor.	b	yeah,

sd	but still that works out really nice.	b	Yeah,

ba	That's not bad either.	sd	like my husband always takes which is kind of like, you know, Contact stuff, only better.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	So if you've got thirty in there it normally comes out to about thirty four dollars so when you pay five it's a pretty good savings.

qo	So, what is your latest experience with painting?	sd	I haven't done any painting since I was a child

b	Uh huh.	sd	when we bought our home it was recently updated.

b	Right.	sd	And the condominium we moved in before, my husband went over and painted,

sd	I had an addition put on	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I decided, because my inner room looked so dingy, because I put these beautiful French doors in	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, so I decided, okay, I'll just, you know, have them paint this little room, you know, a little ten by ten dining area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He said, Well, I'll be done this afternoon, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	and and he was there to paint the French doors also.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and if you've ever painted French doors, which my husband just finally said he wasn't going to do , because it looked so formidable,	b	Yeah.

sd	so the whole project basically took a week .	ba	I know,

sd	and each little, paint stroke, you know, the paint wasn't going on right is what it was.	^2	Pane.

sv	but that doesn't guarantee anything .	aa	No,

b	Right.	 +	it was like ten times longer than he already thought he would be done,

 ba	no.	sd	And then we went in there, you know, one was, bu ,

sv	and that can make a difference, too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, and they bring the, you know, little samples	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it was like you said, you know, it was blue blue cast to it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He had to redo that too.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was a major project getting the money together to do it too, by the end, of the whole project,	b	Right.

sv	I don't think he did the interiors very well .	ba	boy.

b	No .	sd	I mean, you know, they painted our rooms all the time,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so he had to paint the outside all the time.

sd	It wasn't a big deal for them.	b	No,

 sd	I think my husband's really glad about that .	sd	No, no painting to have to do.

ba	For sure.	 %	I don't know that w ,

sd	you just get in there and do it yourself.	sd	We've been trying,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, we've done that the whole time we were in school. Like, trying to repair our own cars,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, so } I want to get to the point where I could feel like I could just hire someone .

h	I don't know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't know if you get into the mind set where you just say, Well, I'll accept something, or you just really have to get on their back, I mean, about things and working with what they say are professional painters.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I tell you what, the fumes that the paint gives off makes you wonder what these people do any ,	ba	That's true.

sd	and I don't think I could stay sane, you know , working with all that.	b	No.

fe	but, my goodness .	 ^2	But, still, it's harmful,

ba	it does.	sd	The only painting job that was really painless for us was in this condominium that the, association that manages it, they have to take care of like the structural damage.

b	Yeah.	sd	But they came in and did it and left in just no time at all,

sv	It makes you wonder .	b	Uh huh.

fc	Well, I hope you have a nice day today.	fc	Well, you too,

fc	And you take care.	fc	I guess it's getting to be lunch time,

fc	Okay.	fc	You have a good day.

fc	Bye, Kay.	fc	Bye.

sd	and she's the only one that lives near by.	ba	well that will be nice though.

sd	and one lives near D. C.	sv	But still sort of up in that general area of the country

b	Yeah	sv	so you can probably see them sometimes.

sd	we see them once in a while, a couple of times a year at least,	b	Yeah

sd	and the ones in Pittsburg, of course, we see more often,	b	Yeah

sd^t	I'm ready to go.	qw	Well, what kind of recycling do you have in your area?

sd	one of the biggest problems seems to be they don't have anyplace to put some of the things that need recycled.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Right now we've recycled glass for years because we have a glass industry in our community.	qw	which one is that?

sd	Owens.	bk	uh huh.

sd	and they have bins to collect those. the aluminum cans.	b	Uh huh.

sd	what they were doing was shredding it and trying to sell it to farmers for bedding for their animals, and that type of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but somebody told me that they were charging as much for it as they did for straw. Which is why they couldn't sell it,	b	Oh.

sd	you know, because the farmers would buy the straw if it's a, you know, similar price.	b	Sure.

sd	mainly the glass, the aluminum, the plastics.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, we would like industry to do more before they build these big, huge incinerators.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, we just feel they should offer industry some incentives to do more reducing of their waste products and reusing,	b	Uh huh.

sd	At first, apparently, it costs more to get started.	b	Right.

sv	But once they get established, then it's a money saving thing.	sd	Well, our company does some things, all of which I couldn't even tell you about.

qw	And what is T I?	sd	Texas Instruments.

bk	okay.	b	Yeah .

ad	Excuse me, go ahead .	sd^t	Well, I was just curious as how you got hooked up with this speech type of thing.

sd	he works in a computer laboratory.	b	Oh

sd	And, it was through him that,	b	Yeah.

qw	maybe you could tell me, what is the difference between office paper waste and just like newspapers?	sd	Well, I guess I don't know specifically, except that, for the paper that they want to recycle, they do not want any newspaper, and things like candy wrappers or, that type of thing.

b	really.	sd	and, even some of those can have plastic tabs on them.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, they do that

b	yeah.	sd	I don't know all the details,

b	yeah.	sd	but they're really on top of that.

b	Yeah.	sd	And there probably some other things that I don't about because we're a real large company.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And I just don't have contact with them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But in our, city,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they have initiated a newspaper recycling whereby they pick it up from your alley, one day a week and all you have to do is bundle it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	all around Dallas there are a lot of recycling centers where you can take things, sometimes for money

b	Uh huh.	 +	but most of those are real far away from like where I live at any rate.

sd	Well it would be inconvenient in other words to,	^2	Very inconvenient,

^2	more areas where they would pick it up.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	that wouldn't be so bad.

 b	Yeah.	sd	our grocery store, like yours, will take the, plastic bags

b	uh huh.	sd	But, you mentioned the, glass type of stuff.

sd	well, Knox is just over the hill here .	bh	really?

sd^e	They, they no longer are, you know, active.	b	Yeah

b	Yeah.	sd	but he worked for them for like thirty one years.

ba	for heaven's sake.	sd	And he used to travel up there to Knox quite a bit,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I even did once when I was a child,

sd	Well, we only live probably about fifteen, twenty miles from Knox.	bh	really?

ny	uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	yeah.	sd	But, I guess that's about it, you know, as far as what goes on that I know about.

sd	We feel that they should give businesses more incentives to do more recycling and more reduction and more reuse and all those things that could be done.	b	Yeah.

sv	we just don't think, we don't think some of the politicians are really interested in our best interests.	b	Yeah

sv	And, it's been a real struggle and a hardship for a lot of people in our area that we've, you know, have been fighting against this thing in trying to have things changed, to make them more right,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and like you say, make it, better for companies to do these things, and get involved in it without huge cost to them,

b	Right.	sv	because obviously, no one wants to spend a lot of money, just to deal with trash, you know.

sv	well, we're going to pay for that whether we pay industry or, pay,	aa	Yeah,

sd	and it's our money that's cleaning this, stuff up.	ba	That's right.

sd	and that will make another hazardous dump	b	Uh huh.

sd	We'll pay for it again,	ba	That's true.

qh	Why not pay industry a little more, and reduce it, you know, and not have as much of it. 	b	Uh huh.

aa	definitely.	sv	we don't need three quarters of, what we get.

sv	but they think, and probably they're right, people buy it easier .	sv	that's their marketing.

sd	We don't have anyplace right now that will take them.	b	Yeah.

b	yeah.	sv	But I don't that it's a big money,

sd	So I've been concerned about crime lately.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's really scary to listen to the news every night and to hear about all the problems.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I wondered if you were taking any special precautions in your neighborhood?	na	Well, I think we have a neighborhood watch .

b	Uh huh.	sd^r	I think.

b	Uh huh	sd	well, I know they were going to start one,

b	No,	qo	How about you?

sd	and so } we've been trying to install some, outside lights	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we put up a fence in the backyard.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Mostly, you know, not so much thinking that we would deter someone to break in, but that our children would be safe playing in the yard. You know.	b	Yeah.

sd@	It's scary to send them off down the street a few houses . * should this end the slash unit? To let them go play with someone because of what you hear about people getting picked up and everything	ba	I'm sure it is.

sd	{D and so } I have to spend a good deal of time watching them , walk down the street and, say, call me before you leave and come back	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And mainly it was so when we pulled up, the light would come on,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we have neighborhood kids that like to get into mischief,

ba@	no. That's a good thought.	sd	we thought with that light, you know, it would maybe keep them from doing something to the boat .

sv	but it but it does seem that there is a lot more here in Plano of, just bored teenagers .	b	Uh huh.

sd	Vandalism.	sd	We live in, Coppell

 sd	I know my sister in law who lives in our neighborhood they've had their,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they parked their car out on the street before and it's been spray painted and	ba	no.

sd	because you don't know if it's someone their teenagers know or is it just random crime,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, we've been real lucky that no one in my family anywhere that they live has been a victim of, you know, a serious crime.	b	Yeah,

sv	But, it's really scary to know that you can live a normal life and try to be a good citizen but it doesn't mean you'll be safe	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, But, I guess I take little bit of, safety in knowing that a lot of the crimes that they report are, like drug related or things that,	b	Uh huh,

sd	places usually that I wouldn't be going. And things I usually wouldn't be involved in.	b	Uh huh,

sv	And, there's not so much of it completely innocent victims compared to,	b	Yeah.

sv	but it is scary.	b	Yeah,

qy	Were you raised in this area?	ny	Yeah.

qr	So, has it been getting worse that you noticed, or about the same?	na	 definitely.

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know,

b	Right.	sd	In the dark parking lot .

sd	we moved here from Houston not too long ago.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, of course, we were interested in schools	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they're not really very safe	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's just a whole different idea that, at least the people here feel that their kids are pretty safe at school.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And so that's been something that's been good you know, in this area that you feel like, you know, there's not going to be too many knifings or shootings at school today.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't know how people live with that every day.	aa	I don't either.

sv	Pretty scary.	aa	Yeah,

sd	my name is Karen.	b	Okay,

sd	I've probably personally take I think just two	b	Okay.

sv	and you may be familiar with it from Wisconsin, is called COUNTRY.	aa	yes,

sd	this one is the one they have all the pictures of scenery from places we wished we live, like Wisconsin .	b	yeah.

sv	Gorgeous leaves and trees and all the lakes and the mountains and things.	b	Sure.

sd	and that's my very favorite.	ba	that's great.

qw	What do you take?	sd	Well, I actually take COUNTRY LIVING,

^2	decorating.	sd^m	Decorating and, getting ideas for a garden.

b	Uh huh.	sd	In fact, right before you called, I was planning my tulips and, putting them on blue print on where I'm going to put them,

bh	Are you?	sd	so I'm really into that,

b	Oh.	sd	but, so, I really get into magazines that are kind of basically into, housing type things, be decorating and gardening and recipes, that kind of stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I'm pretty much in the same category as what you're looking at.

sd	We took NEWSWEEK	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I think we took it especially just during the war to kind of catch up on everything and have it be digested.	b	Sure.

sd	But we've kind of discontinued that right now	b	Yeah.

sd	I think it.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I think with that what happens is, it's interesting to read

b	Uh huh.	sv	but you kind of just put the magazine away

sd	and we saved the ones from the war and one from the earthquake.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, that's pretty similar,

 b	Uh huh.	sd	but I find that with these COUNTRY magazines, I keep going back to them, getting ideas, looking back and saying, Jeez, there was a flower garden in there that I , that I would like to have some ideas, you know

sv	Well, you sound like you, That's the thing, you sound like you have the facilities to do that.	sd	I get a lot of ideas from them.

b	Oh.	sd	we're right across from a river,

b	Oh.	sd	it just peaked, last week,

ba	I bet it is gorgeous.	b	Yeah,

aa	I agree,	sd	and, you know, it's, it's fine,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know that part, probably half their money comes from these people that are saying, Put my ad in your paper and I'll pay you or whatever,

b	right.	sd	but, there's been some magazines I've looked at,

sd	I think I opened VOGUE the other day or something	aa	Yeah,

sd(^q)	And I thought, Why buy this?	aa	Yeah,

qh	You know, what's the point?	sd	I mean, you could go into a store and get bombarded the same way,

sd	And my number one pet peeve in a magazine, is when they put the perfume in it because, real often, I don't like very heavy perfumes	aa	Yeah,

sv	and very often, like, you know, in my bills, also, magazines and bills, and they'll, come out just stinking , the whole thing.	aa	Exactly,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But pretty much like I said, the magazines I've had, BETTER HOMES AND GARDEN,

b	Oh.	sv	and I thought, Well, I'll give it a try again, because you get tired of one magazine,

qr	or do you keep it?	ny	yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	A lot of times, you know, if I got a chance to sit down at my typewriter, I'll go ahead and type out recipes,

sd	See how the family liked it .	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, I'm going to pay attention more when I'm in the store to that COUNTRY LIVING, I remember seeing the cover.	b	Yeah.

sd	Back when I decorated the house with a lot of the little country, primitive things, the little pigs and the jeez, and the ducks, and that, that was the big rage here, couple of years ago.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I bought a lot of the country magazines	b	Sure,

sd	but I had forgotten the recipes	b	Uh huh.

cc	I'll have to check that out,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I went through all this,

^2	And you don't want to part with any of them because there's one thing in each one .	b	yeah.

ba	that's good.	sd(^q)	And I just said, Okay, there's one picture in there that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's got to have more than that

b	right.	sd	it's got to have some good ideas

b	Right.	sd	it's got to have everything.

qw	what type of things would you fix if you're having company come over?	sd	Well, I have a really great one that I make in the summertime because it's cool

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I like that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it makes it so much easier,

sd	Oh .	sd	I don't have to do that.

qy	You serve it cold?	ny	Uh huh.

ba	that sounds good.	b	Yeah,

sd	Usually when we entertain we do something really simple, because I like to visit with my company, and not be scurrying around in the kitchen,	b	Yeah.

sd	so, a lot of times, we'll barbecue	b	Exactly.

sd	and we just bought a brisket and marinated it overnight in one of those like Adolph's meat marinate, and put it on the smoker and cooked it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then people think they're eating steak or something .	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	It really does.	sd	I know what you mean.

sd	I don't usually just pass on any recipe that's got more than five or six steps to it because I just know I'll never take the time to do it.	sd	Now spaghetti's such an easy one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I do spaghetti a lot.

sd	it seems like most people like spaghetti.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	h	Because, I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	b	I guess.

sv	Well I think when you heat your kitchen up it really makes a big difference, in your whole house.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's usually friends from church and stuff,	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	and it's usually kind of like, you want to come over, and they say well what can we bring.	b	Yeah.

sd	and everybody else brings something.	sd	That's exactly like us, from our church, we just do it,

sd	I don't know if I could take the pressure of having to you know, put on this really fancy dinner for someone.	sd	Well you see all that on T V

b	Huh uh.	sd	well I'm pretty laid back.

b	Yeah	sd	And, you know, so I know a lady in my church

b	Yeah	o	I guess,

qy	Do you work?	nn	No,

qy	Do you stay home with kids?	ny	Uh huh,

sd	and I'm not going to work anymore.	ba	how exciting.

sd	and by then it's eight thirty or nine o'clock at night,	b	Yeah.

b^m	Eat at six, yeah.	b	Yeah,

ba	that's good.	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I like to be able to sit down after school and have them talk with me and my husband about what's happened

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know we could learn to talk about things

sd	It keeps the family in touch with what's going on with each other.	b	Yeah.

sd	but since it's just the two of us, it's ,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, sometimes if something, is on that they want to watch I leave it on,

^2	to see what's happening.	b	Yeah.

b	uh huh.	sd	And if they're going to have other kids over then, then they help.

sd	I've seen those in the magazines.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the kids love to do that.

b	Yeah.	sd	and like, now one thing I wish I could find a better way to do are celery sticks and carrot sticks, because they love to do that

b	Yeah.	sd	they like to eat it,

sd	we like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	that's a good way to get kids to eat vegetables too.	 b	Yeah.

ba	neat.	sd	sometimes he fixes me breakfast .

ba	wow, that's great .	b	Yeah,

qw	How old is he?	sd	He's eleven.

ba	wow, that's good.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do like you cook a breakfast every morning	ng	not every morning,

b	Yeah.	sd	during wintertime when they're in school, then I try to vary it so that we only eat that like twice a week or something and then have like, when it's really cold, I even cook oatmeal, Because I like oatmeal

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they like it all right.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, then sometimes we do something,

b	yeah.	b	Yeah,

sd	I've never tried it.	no	it depends.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You can tell if they've gone to long because they'll turn a little bit gray

b	Yeah.	sd	So you have to just let it cook a little bit less than what it says in, if you have a microwave book,

 b	Oh.	sd	And let it steam.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then stir it up.

b	Yeah.	sd	And it's funny 'cause if I turn them out on to like a plate, for them to take what they want, they don't know I've ever done it in a microwave.

sd	Uh huh.	sv	It's really funny,

 b	Yeah	sd	and yet if they don't ever see it, then it's like, this tastes okay, you know,

sd	so she would make these fancy casseroles and hide it in there, you know,	b	Yeah

fp	Brian in Plano, Texas. How are you doing today?	fp	Hi,

sd	Great, Nancy.	sd	I'm in Plano also .

sd	You're in Plano also,	b	Yes,

sd^t	I was just talking to someone the other day from Pennsylvania.	ba	that was good.

qy	Really?	ny	Yeah.

b^r	good to hear.	sd	Learned about their basketball team .

qw	Which one?	sd	Jazz.

b	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	The Utah Jazz.	b	Yeah.

sv	They've got some good good, some good, good players out there.	sd@	That's what I heard. Yeah.

qy	Well, you ready for New Year's Eve?	na	I am.

ad	Should we, start this so we can,	aa	Okay.

qw	What was your name again?	sd	Nancy.

sd	Nancy, that's	b	Right.

sd	and I'm Brian.	b	Right.

sd^t	Okay Nancy, then I guess today's subject is benefits in the job other than salary.	b	Right.

qw	What, what do you feel are important to you or other people as crucial benefits?	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm a nurse

b	Oh .	sd	I float so that I have no benefits except higher pay for doing that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I find that it makes up for what I pay for insurance

qy^d	to compensate for some of the benefits.	na	Right.

bk	Oh.	b	Yeah,

b	Yes.	sd	And then I have my freedom.

qy^d	so actually that is a benefit,	na	Well, it is to me.

b	Yeah.	sd	and I'm just really not interested in all that.

sv	well I guess that's a good point,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think through our health insurance that I can get better rates through a group plan as opposed to going out and getting health insurance on an individual basis because I had to do that at one time when I wasn't employed with a large corporation	b	Right.

sd	so I I think one of the benefits I see is the group discount.	b	Yeah.

b	Yes.	sv	Then I think it makes a big difference.

sd	and that's one thing I do have.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't think I would have insurance,	b	Right.

sd	and in my previous job, I really enjoyed because they had what was called flex schedule where I could go and I could work, nine hour days and have like Friday only work four hours	b	yeah.

sd	or I could do, work four days a week at ten hours a day and have a, you know, three day weekend. And make my job flexible in that case.	b	Right.

sd	I mean because I was in a position of management I had responsibilities over people that, I needed to make my schedule, so that if I was not there I would have coverage by some other management personnel,	 b	Uh huh.

sd	so I think that, that was an excellent benefit that I really enjoyed	b	Yeah.

sv	and that's good.	b	Yeah.

qw	And, what other benefits do you think are important?	sv	well, I guess, retirement, that kind of thing which I don't worry much about ,

ba	that's true.	sd	I just prefer to worry about today,

sv	Well, and that's an individual thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and also a nice thing that we have in our corporation is a profit sharing plan where we can, participate in the profits of the company. you know, if we've been there a while and we're vested, which means that, you know, we have an interest, in the company that we can, get some of the benefits of either the profit high times or in a sense, suffer during the low times	b	Right.

sd^t	and I thought I'd make one tonight.	sd	Well, I have an exercise bicycle in my bedroom, but it usually's holding clothes .

sd	That's what I did with mine, for a long time, put it on the handlebars so I can hang them up.	b	Right .

sd	And sometimes she just flops them all over the seat.	sd	Well, that's not why I got it,

sd	I like it.	qy	is it less boring than the bicycle or not.

sd^e	it's just as boring.	qy	You watch T V or something while you do it?

na	I read a book while I'm doing it.	b	Oh.

sd	But I was doing that on the exercise bike.	sd	Well, I do that too.

sd	I feel like I'm getting a little better of a workout, and I'm losing more weight on this than on the other.	b	Really.

sd	I was getting all dimpled up .	 b	Yeah.

sd	And those are going away.	b	Really.

sv	So that's real good.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We got it at a little bit of an incline.	qy	Are they kind of expensive.

sd	this is five hundred.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I know they get cheaper.	bh	They do?

b	Uh huh.	sv	Probably the more you pay, though, the better the machine you have.

sd	Well, I hope so.	qy^g	Well, you can believe that anyway, right.

sd	and we ski and swim in the summer	^2	During the year.

b	uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	qy	Do you work at T I?

sd	I think, your voice sounds familiar.	b	Really.

qw	Where do you wo ,	sd	I live in Arlington.

sd^t	I wonder if we talked before.	qw	Where do you live?

sd	I'm in Garland.	nn	No,

sd^t	You sound like this girl that I talked to about books, and we got into movies one night.	b	really.

b	Uh huh.	ar	no,

sd^t	education. Social changes that we've seen in the last ten, twenty, thirty years. Yeah,	bk	Oh .

sd^t	that one was.	sv	It's more interesting than the treadmill and the bicycle.

sv^t	The most boring one was about what meal would you cook for a sit down dinner.	ba	my goodness .

sd^t	The other woman didn't cook too much either.	sv^t	really have a lot of variety.

sd^t	I talked to this old woman that was a retired administrator in Ohio one night about education.	 ^2	A school administrator.

 b	Uh huh,	sv	Well that could, That would have been interesting.

 sd^t	and then a couple of weeks later I talked to the guy's roommate, in Virginia, about different things.	b	Really,

b	Uh huh.	qy^t	How long is this going to go on, do you know?

no	I don't know.	sd^t	I don't either .

qw^t	Well, how'd you find out about it?	br	Pardon me?

qw^t	How did you find out about it?	sd	I don't know.

nn	Uh huh.	bh	really.

sd	I have a friend that had a roommate that worked at T I	b	Uh huh.

 sd^t	and she saw it on the computer screen and they made copies of it.	sd^t	so they wanted anybody,

b	Uh huh.	ba	Well, that's interesting.

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	I had no idea that was just for the employees,

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	I kept hanging up on them for days, until my husband told me what it was .

b	Oh .	sd^t	I didn't know.

sd^t	But then on the letter it says cash or prize.	b	Oh.

sd^t	This is going on my fourth week to do it.	b	my.

ad^t	tell me.	h^t	I wish I had that booklet here.

ny	Yeah.	sd^t	well, they have some watches that look really nice.

qy^t	Does it say?	sd^t	I haven't quite figured that out.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)^t	Says when we have enough calls from you, you will receive in the mail a numbered certificate for your calls and explanation how to redeem, for gifts.

sd	He's telling me to start the grill.	b	Oh .

qy^d^t	So it's not all stuff that T I makes.	nn	no,

bf	You mean the clocks.	aa	Yeah,

 b	Yeah.	sd	I'm going crazy,

b	god.	sd^t	It's got one of those,

qr^t	Did they mail that to you, or he brought it to you?	 sd^t	He brought it home.

sd^t	so you're bound to find something you want.	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd^t	Silver plated bowls and stuff. There's a lot of stuff, it's a big booklet.

qy^t	Well, do you know you have a ten minute time limit.	nn	no.

sd^t	and then they come on and they tell you got five seconds to say good bye.	 sd^t	well, it's been fun,

sd^t	We'll keep talking if we want to come up with something else.	b	Yeah.

sd	we joined, ex.	sd	I went to Metropolitan a couple of years ago,

sd	and they transferred it to another one that was really far away.	sv	That's a very common experience.

sd	it wasn't near me.	b	No.

sd	and we'd end up just smoking cigarettes and riding around like we couldn't find the place .	ba	That's funny .

sd	So my husband's just discouraged me on those things.	b	Right,

sd	And I got one of those Jane Fonda workout tapes that I dubbed from a friend.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I had a baby, I think .	b	Yeah,

sd	Two.	b	Yeah,

sd	she's in college.	b	well.

sd	So there's where the money goes.	ba	tell me about it,

qw	Where's you ki ,	sd	putting two of us through, isn't he lucky.

bf	Two.	sd	Well, me, I'm going, and my daughter Janet in Austin.

 qw	Where you going to school?	sd	U T A right here.

qw	And what are you doing?	sd	Well, I'm, going to be certified as an English teacher teach English as a second language.

b	Huh uh.	 %	that's ,

sv	The test is a booger. The test, the exit test.	bf	Hard.

aa	It's hard.	fe	no.

sv	It is so hard.	 b@	Really. Really,

 b	Uh huh.	qo	how are the other ones.

sd	See I didn't have to take any other exit test because I've been teaching for quite a while.	b	yeah,

sd	But I've heard they're terrible.	b	Really.

sd	I've had friends fail that twice.	b	Really.

b	Good.	sd	I really ought to take those quickly while I still remember some.

sv	right after you get out.	sd	I know. .

sd	most of the training I've got has been through Dallas just teaching E S L.	b	Oh .

sv	Trying to find a jury so you can get a jury as far as, they may say they're not biased,	b	Yeah.

sv	so, I don't think it's such a bad idea to think about.	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well I certainly haven't thought much about this

qy^g	Catches you off guard, doesn't it? .	ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm trying to figure out whether I'm remembering wrong or whether that's by state.

sv	I thought the sentencing was done by the judge.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, it's either guilty or not guilty.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	 +	too, or whatever.

b^r	yeah.	sv	in terms of doing away with the unanimous jury, I guess I, would be a little more leery of that kind of a change in the trial system.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, and, I, I certainly wouldn't feel comfortable with just a bare majority.

sv	in certain cases I can see them going, just basically with a judge, guilty or not guilty verdict simply from a judge in highly publicized cases versus the small, maybe, you did a crime that was, burglary or whatever	b	Yeah.

sv	But when you get into these highly publicized cases where everybody knows details whether it's through the NATIONAL ENQUIRER or whatever.	 b	Yeah,

sv	I'm not going to listen to the facts and con their way into, getting past the lawyers and getting through that.	b	Yeah.

sd	But I wonder if there is some big expense in trying to call a jury to trial and then having to pay whatever they have to pay if there's something that they have to pay.	b	Yeah.

sd	I know companies have to pay for these people to be off from work. Or at least give them the time off from work.	b	Yeah.

sd	If I remember, jury duty is with pay.	sd	I know it is where I work.

^2	Paid, right.	sv	I suspect that's a benefit of a bigger company.

^2	Some that may decide not to.	 aa	yeah,

qy	Did you want me to go ahead?	aa	I'll let you go ahead and start, yeah.

sd	and they took care of the family,	sv@	You know, I think that's changed just in the last generation. Just in the last little while. Because I know my father in law doesn't do that much, of that kind of stuff

b	Yeah.	sd	but my husband is wonderful.

sd	I mean it doesn't bother him at all to do the dishes.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, men are starting,	b	Yeah,

sv	I think those men don't last very long in relationships because I think women know what they want.	sv	They're not accepting that anymore.

aa	exactly.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think that's even going to get better. Even, you know, even more so.	b	Yeah.

sd@	you can be whatever you want to be. Whether it be a welder or trucker or whatever . As long as you, go to school for it and get the education,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I also think it is important for them to be with the children.

aa	I do too.	sv	I, I think there are some things that women just are designed to do better than men.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And there are some things that men are designed to do better than women.

b	Yeah.	sv	I don't think it should ever be totally equal.

b	Yeah.	sv	we're not made like that.

sv	Well, emotionally I think, women do a little bit,	ba	That's right.

sv	 I know of some mothers that I guess I'd rather be with the father because the father is maybe more understanding, more, low key, more apt to be a better father than some mothers that I have seen that have been raised, you know, to develop whatever skills that they have,	b	Yeah.

sv	So, it may come down to where it's individual basis. Where everybody is treated an as individual, and not by sex.	b	Yeah.

sv	And it wouldn't matter if it's a woman or a man saying that.	sv	One of the frustrations that I have with the way things have developed is that, and for some it's not a problem, it's difficult for a family to make a living on one income.

b	uh huh.	sv	It can be done,

b	Yeah.	sv	but you make sacrifices.

sd	I don't know, if you've only got one,	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you or your husband work for T I,	na	I'm a contract person at T I in fact involved with, Data Switchboard

ba	Well, that's neat.	qy	and, do you work for T I?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Uh huh.

sd	So, I've worked for them for several years, like twelve now, I guess.	sd	you sound very young like just out of college .

sd	but, well, have you seen any movies recently?	^h	I'm trying to think,

bh	did you?	qy	and, have you seen that one?

sd	I have a hard time with movies that are real long.	sv	That was excellent.

b	Yeah.	sd	but we both just thoroughly, you know enjoyed it, just really liked it

sd	Well, I've heard a lot of good things about it.	^h	and, I'm trying to think,

o@	Was it, my wife and I went and saw a couple of funny ones.	sd	I've gone blank.

sd	We saw THE NAKED GUN, TWO AND A HALF	sd	we have not seen that,

o	what was the spoof on TOP GUN,	sd	I haven't seen that one.

sd	I was pretty disappointed in that one.	 bh	Were you.

sd	we have small children, so we don't get to see too many, but we've seen I guess two or three movies this past summer.	sd	My husband doesn't enjoy the shows as much going to them,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so we watch a lot of them, you know, at home as they come out,

qy	Have you seen GHOSTS yet?	ny	Yes,

sd	I enjoyed that movie,	bh	Did you?

b	Really.	sd	I'm a real big Patrick Swayze fan

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I was really disappointed in it,

b	Yeah.	sv	it was more of a love story

b	Yeah,	sd	and, so I was really disappointed in that because I like him real well.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We just got through watching one with, is it Claude Van Damme yeah, and, enjoyed it,

sd	I think,	sd	I can't think what the name of

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we enjoyed that,

qy	SILENCE OF THE LAMBS?	ny	Yes.

sd^e	I did.	qy	Wasn't that excellent?

sd^e	I really enjoyed that a lot.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I kept thinking about it, you know,

sv	but really, I mean, when you stop and think about it, Anthony Perkins didn't have that big a role in the movie	aa	No.

sv	and yet it was his character that was so intriguing,	sv	it was excellent,

b	Yeah.	sv	and, I think he made the movie,

sd	I really did	b	Yeah,

aa	I agree with you.	qr	Is it Anthony Perkins or Anthony Hopkins?

fa	I'm sorry	b^m	Hopkins,

sd	I always get those mixed up.	b	I know

sd	that's not why I go	aa	No,

sv	and that one was.	sv	and that one very definitely kept you on the edge of the seats,

qy	he didn't see it?	ng	he won't go see that,

bk	Oh.	sd	I went with, our daughter so, you know, saw it with her, and, enjoyed it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My all time favorite is WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S.

bh	really?	qy	Did you see it?

sd^e	I've seen it.	sd	I've seen it, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, we just love it,

sd	I guess, you know, as far as comedies go, probably my favorite is YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN.	b	yes,

sd	I love that movie,	sd	My husband liked that

b	Yeah,	sd	he's a big Gene Wilder fan,

sd	but I'm a big, Mel Brooks fan	b	Uh huh,

qy	He does?	ny	Yeah,

qy	is that the one that's he's starring in?	ny	Uh huh,

sd	that came out, like early in the summer or something like that.	b	Yes,

sd	I haven't seen that one either.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	BLAZING SADDLES.	na	BLAZING SADDLES.

 ny	uh huh.	sd	that's my husband's all time favorite, I think.

sd	I like that one too, but I thought YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN was better.	qy	Did you?

sd	and sometimes I work on trumpet mouthpieces.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we cut out things, you know, and color and, use markers and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

qo	how about you?	sd	well I used to be more into crafts, when I was younger, like high school stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I've learned how to crochet,

aa	exactly.	sd	I used to play trombone .

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know if that was a,

b	Uh huh.	qw	But, what are some other things you enjoy?

sd	my father is in the antique business.	b	Uh huh

sd	and he buys all kinds of, china and figurines and statues and stuff.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	It's called J B Weld	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's an epoxy resin that you mix together.	ba	cool.

sd	the hand's about the size of a cricket. And, has, like the forefinger sticking out and the thumb sticking out,	ba	wow.

sd	It's kind of a ivory color all over and and, has some age spots in it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	He had a blue bowl a few weeks ago that he fixed that way.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then, And and then he, he thatches, you know, those, thatched chairs.	qy	Do you ever,

sv	Course that's like that, hooking that you were talking about.	b	Yeah.

sv	That takes a lot of time.	sv	That's great that he has a lot of hobbies and stuff.

sd	but I think he's stopped pretty much now.	b	Oh .

sd	and I use, the graphics software on that, to do figures and to look at things, you know, see how they work.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	qy	does he ever, refinish furniture or anything like that?

sd	we bought it at an, unfinished, furniture place and sanded it down and, stained it and then lacquered over it .	b	Uh huh

ny	yeah.	sv	But, it's nice to have it when you're done,

aa	sure is.	sd	So, I've done that once

qy	did you use a Zar stain?	no	I don't remember.

sd	it's Z, A R .	b	Uh huh.

sd	if you get too much in one spot you can smooth it out.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was all right.	sd	I remember it took me a long time,

b	Yeah.	^h	But, I don't know.

b	Uh huh	nn	No,

fc	Well, it was nice talking to you.	fc	Have a good day now.

fc	you too.	fc	Bye .

sd	when the war was on I watched C N N and, NIGHTLINE pretty regularly and read the paper and all	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you been keeping up?	na	Well, just really the last couple of days since the, U N debate or whatever you want to call it that, voted on whether there was going to be a cease fire.

b	Uh huh.	 sv	they had, I don't know if you call it standout or whatever

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, I guess, from what I understand the thing could just it could just, they could take off at any moment without, you know, you know, any local, you know, congressional effort or anything else because, you know, it's not really settled yet.

qy^d	There's no official document signed or anything?	ng	Not yet.

sd	so I got out like my encyclopedias and tried to read about the history.	b	Uh huh.

sv	there just hasn't been any peace over there ever . In thousands of years, of history.	aa	No.

sv	there isn't any real Arab coalition because they do fight among themselves.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they have such hatred for, Israel	b	Yeah.

 b	yeah.	sd	And, he came within a quarter of an inch of going, to Saudi,

sd	And got it over with.	b	Yeah.

sv	there's just no way for us to be involved over there and hope that there will be much peace.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I'm afraid that we would have to stay.	b	Yeah.

 b	Uh huh.	 +	and part of it Iraq and part of it something else, you know,

 b	Right.	sv	So, the country of, of Kuwait really doesn't make just a whole lot of sense except that it is an excepted place, you know

b	Yeah.	sv	it's like any other country, you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	And it's just that this was an excuse, you know, to make some noise .

b	Yeah.	sv	now we are a legitimate player, in the game over there, you know,

 b	Right.	sv	But, we are now a legitimate player in the, in the game because we came in with a certain amount of force and you know we defeated,

 b	Right .	 sv	that kind of ups our stock in there just a little bit.

b	Yeah.	sv	because they'd go in and they'd win something.

b	Right.	sv	and then they could call the shots for the, you know, period of time until the next strong man came up and, you know and caused problems.

sd	I'm not interested in keeping big military over there and having to go and call the shots like you say.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I just would prefer that, I mean sometimes we've said we're not interested in what other countries do.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it was important demilitarize that area because of all the build up armaments.	b	Yeah.

sv	because we just don't want to send our people there and make them stay.	sv	that's the, that's the big thing, you know,

b	Yeah.	 sv	we're used to wars where you can get in do the job and get out.

b	Yeah.	sv	they gave the guys, the power and the material and told them to go do it and they did it. You know, got in and got out.

b	Yeah.	h	I'm not sure,

b	Yeah.	sv	And whether the United Nations,

b	Uh huh.	sv	seems to be exactly what's happening right at the moment.

sv	Well, I don't think there's much hope for a lasting peace over there like they, expect. * Should utt 101 be included in this slash unit?	aa^r	No,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, the only way that you're going to have peace over there, if we determine that we want to go in and wipe out every last one of them,

aa	No.	sv	So that's a little rough, you know,

sd	I have a repairman just came, for my refrigerator,	b	Oh .

fc	I hope you have a good day.	fc	You too.

fc	Bye bye.	 fc^m	Bye bye.

o	All righty.	o	Okay.

qw	What type of home do you have in Dallas?	sd	We have a, four bedroom split brick home in Richardson actually.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we bought it back in about nineteen seventy three.

ba	good .	aa	Yes .

qy^d	And it's probably typical of your neighborhood.	ny	Yes,

sd	I'm in Plano just, you know, north of where you live.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, we live near Coit and Legacy in a relatively new development that just has gone in about two years ago.	sd@	I know where that is. Yeah. * should this be two slash units?

sd	and it's typical of the other homes in our neighborhood too.	b	Yes,

ny	Yes.	sv	those are lovely.

sd	and then we had them level off our living room and dining room ceiling to, nine feet so we could get bedrooms above.	b	Oh.

sd	but we don't have so much wasted space.	b	Yes.

sd	And we could get more bedrooms per square foot that way.	qy	Have you, found in talking to your neighbors that your utilities are quite a bit higher with those high ceilings?

ng	Mine are actually the lowest in the neighborhood.	qy	Are they?

ny	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's over three fifty a month.	ba	Wow.

sd	just to air condition it,	qw	Well, how many bedrooms do you have in your home?

sd	so, above the garage area I have a studio.	bk	uh huh.

sd	and it, and it's the size of a three car garage.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, that's where I work.	sv	That's a pretty good size room.

aa^r	yes.	ba	That's neat.

sd	and we just absolutely, love it.	ba	Well, it sounds like a real nice one.

sd	I just hope we never have to move again.	b	Right.

sd	Detroit this last time.	bk	uh huh.

sd	We were there two years	b	Uh huh.

sd	we love it.	qy^d	And I would imagine that you have found that the homes down here are, a much better value down here, aren't they, than they are,

sd^e	and they're much, much better constructed down south than they are up north too.	bh	really?

sv@	Up north they just kind of throw them together. Because we had homes built in Detroit also,	b	Uh huh.

sd	If the trim work didn't line up that's just what you get .	sd	That's interesting because I've heard so many people down here say that they don't feel like the quality of the homes, you know, are that good down here.

b	Oh.	ba	so that's interesting.

sd	and you know, they seemed so proud of everything they did.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	And it really made a difference to us.	sd	Well, I know as I said our house is about seventeen years old

b	Yes.	sd	And, you know, it is with the, you know, two children growing up and now three grandsons roaming through it, all the time.

b	Oh.	sd	and we like our neighborhood.

b	Yes.	sd	and the majority of the people, you know, keep up the neighborhood.

sv	That's important too.	sv	And that's very important

b	Uh huh.	sd	But we bought back when housing was so low,

b	Oh.	sd	then it started jumping by leaps and bounds.

b	Yes.	sd	It seems to have leveled off and actually dropped back down a little bit,

b	Yeah,	sd	but we're still fine.

sd	ours is pretty much level in the two years ,	b	Uh huh,

sd	but I don't know with the E D S building and Penny's and everything going in up on Legacy, we're hoping that brings in more people.	b	Yes .

 sd	That's what we're hoping because, we're just real close to where that is.	sv	Your pricing.

 b	Uh huh.	 +	improves, I think the housing will go up.

 sd	I hope so too.	 sv	You know. Right now there's a lot on the market for sale because of people having lost their jobs, and everything

b	Yes.	sv	so you know, that keeps prices down and value down

b	Yeah.	sv	and I'm sure the packs , or

sv	For that reason it can stay the same,	ba	That's right .

sd	but , But we love being where we are.	ba^r	That's right .

o	Okay.	sd	Well, I just got back from taking my little girl to her Brownie meeting,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they've been recycling at their school.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But they were filled with beer cans .

b	Hm .	sd	and I hated to take a big old sack, I mean, I mean, like a lawn bag full of them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we'll just taking them up there and put them in the bins anyway.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They had tickets at their school that they recycle either newspapers or cans,

b	Oh.	t3	Okay,

ba	that's a good idea.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So they're getting into it.

ba	that's good.	aa	It's not bad, yeah.

sd	and we recycle paper.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, we recycle old aluminum cans and all that kind of stuff.	qy	So in each of the dorms you have a place for that?

ny	Uh huh.	ba	That's really good.

sd	and then we get money for that.	qy^d	For the dorm,

sd^e	you know, we just keep it with the dorm.	qw	And what do they do with it?

sd	and then we buy, like, cooking equipment and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and whatever the dorm would want, that's what we buy.	sd	Well, I graduated from college in nineteen seventy two,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we were just, not aware that this was a problem, that we ever would need to recycle.

b	Yeah.	sd	Of course, you just threw it away.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, a little different.

b	Yeah.	sd	The whole school, you know,

nn	No.	sd	A little boy that had died of leukemia, I think,

b	Oh.	sd	And his mother is carrying this on.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you don't have to join it as a group or anything, I don't guess.

qy	Is that what this target is,	qy	Do you all have Target stores up there?

nn	No.	bk^r	No.

b	Huh uh.	sd	That's a department store.

b	Oh.	sd	Kind of like K Mart except it's a little better than what K Mart sells, I think.

sd	I don't really know any other recycling that they do.	qy^d	So, you're not having it picked up at your houses or anything.

sd	We have to take it to a recycling place.	sd	Now in some of the towns around us, they're already picking up the newspapers.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well, they're doing that here, too, now that I think about it . Once every so many weeks,

b	Oh.	sd	And, I think that's all they're picking up.

sd	I didn't know that.	b	Yeah,

sd	I never heard of that .	qy	Do you all have can banks?

no	not that I know of .	qy	No?

nn	No.	sd	a big old bin,

ba	my gosh.	sd	But they had one that I was putting my stuff in,

sd	and then you get money for your aluminum cans.	qy^d	But they don't give you for the other.

sd	But I know they're going to start now.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	b	I don't know.

b^r	yeah	sd	I'm not that dedicated.

sd	Well, that's all I really know about recycling.	sd	Me, too.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

na	We have Kroger, but not a Skaggs.	sd	they're taking our milk cartons and our plastic coke bottles there, too.

b	Oh.	qy^g	That's pretty good isn't it.

na	You guys are getting into it more than we are.	sd	It sounds like it,

sd	if you have grocery bags you can take them and use them instead of getting new ones.	qy	You mean where you sack your own groceries.

sd^e	but we don't have any place that collects the grocery bags.	sd	And I don't want to go with those canvas bags right now, I'm sorry.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, they go all the time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they had this little bitty old teeny refrigerators.

ba	my.	sv	That's why.

sd	I'm a finance major.	sd	Well, that's why I did what I did.

b	really.	aa	definitely.

b	Uh huh.	^g	Right?

 qw	What do you think the outcome will be?	sv	I think they're maybe going to give us a state income tax.

ny	Yeah	sd	I'm not looking forward to it,

sd	we've had one as long as I can remember .	sd	Well, it's going to hit us.

b	Yeah	h	And I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	We have too many administrators in some of these big districts.

b	Uh huh.	qy^t	But other than that. Well, can you think of anything else we need to talk about.

sd	I can't think of anything on recycling.	sd	Me, either.

nn	No.	qo	What about people from, Pennsylvania.

qy^r	What do we think about them?	ny	Uh huh.

 h	I don't know .	qy	Have you thought about that?

qo	what you think about Pennsylvanians.	sv	Probably a lot more civilized, more, refined than a lot of the people would be down here.

b	really .	sd	I would hope so,

sd	I really don't know anyone from Texas or anything.	b	No.

sd	I've never been there,	sd	Well I've never,

ny	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh	o	Shboom.

b	Oh.	t3	is what you say it is, Holly? in Israel.

b	Oh.	sd	So she's into this.

qy	is it like a foreign exchange type student?	nn	Huh uh.

sd	the only work I do outside the home is I am an Avon representative.	b	okay.

sd	And I sell family products.	b	Uh huh.

 qy	Do you work outside?	nd	Well, I work,

bk	uh huh.	sd	and I work with another C P A who just started his own practice

b	Oh.	sd	and I work with him a couple days a week

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so when I go to his office or to other clients' offices, then I'll dress up

b	Uh huh.	sd	but otherwise it's great being at home in jeans or shorts or whatever .

b^r	uh huh.	sd	So that makes it pretty nice.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it seemed like I was wearing a suit every day, just about.

sv	Well, you'd have to dress differently when you're working every day, I think.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it's, It's, it's very nice.

b	Yeah.	b	Gosh,

sd	so what I wear depends on the weather.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I know a lot of the Avon representatives are portrayed as being very dressed up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I try to dress nice, but for convenience, because when the weather's bad, when I go into the home I take off my shoes which I try to wear something easy to take off, you know and put on.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	so, I really don't have to dress up like you would, like if you're in an office or something. well, not actually because we really only have maybe three, four months of, I'd say warm weather.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	and the rest gets into the cooler weather.	b	Uh huh.

h	so I don't know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But for now, But for now, we have a lot of ice and snow in the wintertime and, cold weather. And that type of thing.	sv	So you all are waiting for that .

sv	I think, you know, you have to spend more money on your clothing, and that because you do have to have a good appearance to do a good job where you work.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, we had a few cool days, this month,

b	uh huh.	sd	So, I mean people are still wearing shorts

b	Uh huh.	sd	so you start you know, breaking out a coat at that time,

b	yeah.	sd	but, that lasts, you know, for a few months .

qrr	or did you did they wear more dresses and skirts.	nn	No.

b^m	No slacks.	sd	I think it was one of those things where, it's not like someone came out and said you can't wear them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was one of those understood things that you just, you know, either wore, you know, a dress or,

qy^d	Not even a dressy slack suit even if it's all,	nn	Not,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Most people didn't.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Sometimes, like the secretaries might

b	Uh huh.	sd	but even then you didn't see them wearing slacks too much.

sd	I don't think she ever wears slacks to work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I didn't know if the trend changes, you know, if,	sv	You know, I think it's one of those things where it's not viewed upon as being professional.

sv	Look more like a woman, .	aa	Yeah

b^r	uh huh.	sv	And it's the men that make the rules .

sv	well, then you, you know why they make them then , that way.	o	But, no,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	So it's nice with me working at home because I can wear pants.

b	Yeah.	sd	no one can see me unless I'm, you know, g ,

sv	But, yet, you need to keep up an appearance for your husband, too, though at home. Because that's, I believe,	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, you'll be excused because considering everything .	b	Yeah,

sd	But I look at homemaking as a job also. being a homemaker	b	Right.

sv	and I think sometimes we lose sight of that. by the fact that we don't sometimes watch our dress,	b	Yeah.

o	Okay .	ad	If you want to go first, go ahead.

sv	and I think we've even gone into more the labor aspect of it also. With the pay and everything, you know.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Because if you look at most corporations, there isn't a woman, you know, that's on the board of directors, or that type of thing,

b	Uh huh.	sv	There may be a few, but very incidental.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I really think that it will be a long time, probably, before we see that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's mostly, you know,

aa	yeah.	sv	You know, it's gotten to be a two income family to just survive today between taxes and the cost of living,

 b	Uh huh.	sd	So I think that we did come a long way in the sense that you know, like you say, we're out in the labor force, but I think we've lost something too.

sd	She never really had a chance to work.	b	Yeah.

sd	She doesn't believe in the woman working unless she has to.	sd	That's what I mean,

b	Yeah.	sv	If you are not going to have a family, then that's fine,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I think it's great, but if you have a family, I think you owe the family a responsibility.

 b	Uh huh.	 sv	And to have children and just get a day care or someone to take care of it, and not really have the bonding process that takes place with babies and stuff, you know I think that the mother and the child lose,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think that's why there is so many problems you know, with kids today,

b	Yeah.	sv	because they don't have the family roots anymore.

sd	that's increasing more unemployment for people that need to work. You know, like for the men that don't have jobs,	aa	definitely.

sd	you know, she feels if there is women out there just because they want to do it, she said, you know, they could stay at home,	aa	That's right,

b	Yeah.	sv	That's very true, but then they shouldn't have a family.

b	Yeah.	sd	That's what I'm saying, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	like basically there's contraceptives and all kinds of ways to prevent pregnancies.

b	Yeah.	sv	There is no need to have children if you don't want them.

qo	} what do you think about the women that are not having families because they want to continue their business?	sv	That's fine,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I agree with that,

b	Uh huh.	h	Well, I shouldn't say they are not going to be a good parent.

 b	Uh huh.	sv	Like they won't have that,

sv	Or they won't be as good as they could be.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's not like something that they really wanted.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm not sorry I had any of them,

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, I had to work, but I tried to make it as painless as possible.

b	Uh huh.	sd	In fact, at one time I worked as a second shift,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I wasn't there at supper time or bed time,

aa	Exactly.	sd	So we were,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that's why I said that's it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I worked that shift for eleven years.

ba	my.	b	Yeah.

o	Bless you .	sd	Just so that my kids would have me at home.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, and I feel that's very important,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So I mean in the sense that we've come a long way,

aa	I agree.	sv	And, I really think that like after the second World War when women went to work in factories and all that, that was like out of necessity, because the men weren't here anymore.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But then it got to be a point where they got some independence.

sv	And they just enjoyed the income, the extra.	aa	Exactly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I notice today kids, you know,

b	Uh huh.	 sd	And we had to walk before we had a car.

aa	Exactly.	sv	And now kids at sixteen years old, they have their birthday,

ba	I know .	sd	And to me, it's like we've lost our values in this country.

b	Uh huh.	sv	We really have,

 b	Uh huh.	sv	You will take better care of that,

b	Uh huh.	 sv	And it's just like college too,

sd	see, now, my parents, there is no way they could afford to send twelve kids to college.	aa	Of course.

sd	and I think that's right	b	Sure,

sd	I mean I tell them I pay for my own life insurance and their mouths just drop to the floor, you know.	 b	Sure,

sv	Well, if they do, they don't know it, you know .	aa	Yeah,

ba	I know.	sv	you know, you are going to find out for yourself,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, there is no harm in that, whereas sometimes you can't even get that from a kid, you know. Just attention, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But really,

sv	and with the abortion, I don't think there is going to be as many abortions, but I don't know what women will do when they get into politics, you know, about abortion.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think it will be freedom of choice.	sv	Well, I still think people have a choice.

aa	Exactly, yeah.	h	I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean no one has said for sure, you know.

sd@	I think if a woman would get into politics or enough women get into politics, I think it will definitely be freedom of choice. Uh huh.	b	Yes,

sd	and we are not supposed to, you know, say that that's okay, but I really feel that it's freedom of choice.	b	Yeah.

sd^r	I do.	sd	Because I mean you as an individual, what you do, that to me is your business.

sv	And different circumstances call for different things.	aa	Exactly,

qy^d^t	I guess you heard our topic for today was clothing?	ny	Yes,

sd^t	How you dress for work and season to season and everything.	b	Uh huh.

qw	How do you dress for work?	sd	Well, about the same I dress for school.

b	Sure.	sd	 although I do, a lot of,

ba	You bet.	sd	I am a speech pathology major

sv	Look professional .	b	Yeah.

sd	and I am very casual and wear slacks and sports shirt and things like that	b	Uh huh.

sd	but then when I travel it is a little different situation.	b	Yeah,

sd@	suits and sports coat, tie and the whole bit. Cause you go to meetings and you are required to look your best and look professional of course.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think in today's society, there is more credibility to be quite honest	b	Uh huh.

sd	my first job years ago, thirty years ago, twenty nine years ago, in fact, was selling agricultural fertilizer.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I sold you know, manure.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I was calling on guys that wore bib overalls.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he sort of told me that he expected me to be professional	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he sort of expected me to dress as a professional	bh	really?

sd	so, it was sort of,	qy^d	Even the farmers.

na	You bet even back then	bk	wow.

sd	so I been aware of my dress ever since then and try to look my best,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but here again I dress casual quite a bit	b	Uh huh.

sd	If I call on just, a normal little dealer of mine, I might be casual.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So it depends.	b	Yeah,

nn	probably no.	b	Uh huh.

nn^r@	Probably, no. Because, today I believe you can get away with,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you like your minister standing up in front of you with no tie, he would be missing something.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Although, he shouldn't be evaluated on that.	b	Right,

sd	So, its' just different.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it is.	sv@	un , un , unfortunately. Uh huh.

sv	I guess that has changed also.	b	Uh huh

b	Right.	sd	and sometimes that really disappoints me, when I see in other economic areas like in Kentucky.

b	Sure.	sd	You know, people just don't have that

sd	so I understand what you are saying there	b	Uh huh.

ba^r	and it's a very good point.	b	Yeah.

sv(^q)	But what's the old saying, you shouldn't judge a book by its cover.	ba	Certainly.

sv	I think you have to dress sort of accordingly.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, you certainly should not judge a book by its cover and, or evaluate a person by that.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I guess your dress changes.	ny	yeah

 qy	Can I guess your favorite team, if you had one, might be the Steelers.	ny	Yes,

sd	you know, I kind of like the Cowboys, too.	qy	Do you?

na	They've had some great games in the past.	b	Uh huh,

sd	He lives in the Dallas area now, as a matter of fact.	qy	Does he really?

sd	He bought a big horse farm out in a little town called Roanoke, Texas.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	As a matter of fact, there was some talk about trying to get him involved with the team management in some sort of a coaching job.	ba	wo ,

sv	He's such a motivator, primarily, you know, with the quarterbacks.	aa	Yes.

sd^r	I really do.	b	Uh huh.

sv	That would be really great.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and in the earlier years they really had some super teams.	b	Uh huh.

sv	he's very good.	b	Uh huh.

sv^r	He's very good.	sv	He's one of the few, Black quarterbacks that there are.

sv	there are very few Black quarterbacks, or at least that are starting anyway.	b	Uh huh.

qy	You have any idea.	no	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, I think they're still such a young team I think they still have a little bit to go before they reach the potential, that it did when ever Bradshaw was playing.

sv	that was just such super team.	sv	Or, if they even reach that potential again, you know, they may never reach that again.

sv^r	it really would.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	They have such a super team for years, that won what, four Super Bowls?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I don't know if that could ever be duplicated again or not.	sd	I don't know.

b	Yeah.	sd	Shooting for one for the thumb now is what they were saying.

ba	That's right .	sd	But basically everyone that was on the team then is gone now,

ba	That's right.	sv	I think Mike Webster was left

h	I don't know.	aa	Yeah,

sv	they had such a super team.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you been following the big draft that occurred yesterday?	nn	No,

bk	I see.	b	Huh uh.

sv	it really is.	b	Yeah,

sd	They may get hurt, or, not be able to participate at that level, if you know,	qw	Well who would you say is your favorite player, or has ever been your favorite player?

qy	Ever been?	ny	Uh huh.

 sd	He used to play for the New York Giants.	b	Oh.

 sd	That was one of the toughest guys that I've ever seen in my life, as far as, you know, dedication.	b	Really.

 sv	He just went all out every single play.	b	Uh huh.

sv	there's been so many.	b	Yeah,

sd	But if I had to pick one, I would probably pick Sam Huff, as a matter of fact.	sv	you know, that's really funny,

b	That's right.	sd	And, at one time I could name all the players on the Steelers, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, even when Bradshaw was playing, I don't know, I didn't particularly care for him,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I thought he was kind of cocky or something.

sv^r	he is,	b	Uh huh.

sv	of course a quarterback has a big ego.	b	Yeah,

sv	they can't survive.	b	Uh huh,

sv	They always think they can win, you know, which is the way it should be.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Boy, he never gave up, I'll tell you.	b	Yeah

b^r	uh huh,	sv	I mean they were good,

b	yeah.	sd	But I thought, you know, well I just didn't really care for either one of them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	today, my favorites out of those guys were probably, Lambert, Ham, and, Stallworth and Swan.

sv	they really were.	b	Uh huh.

sd	highlights, yeah.	b	Yeah,

sv	well they make mistakes too, I guess.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh,	aa	yeah,

sv	it's just a matter of how hard, you know, or where.	b	Yeah.

sv^r	they really do.	b	Yeah.

sv	he's about a half hot head anyway, such a temper.	sv	you know, and to me he's just so big and fat,

b	Uh huh.	sv	he doesn't even look like he's in shape.

sv	obviously not very fast.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, he has a terrible weight problem.	b	Yeah.

sd	they weigh him several times a year just to make sure he's not, you know, completely out of control.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I guess most every team has someone like that,	b	yeah,

sv	Absolutely they get bigger and bigger, it seems every year.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess you have to, you know, to stay in the game I guess.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	qy	would you say that you have a fav ,

sv	well, or I would have to say, you know, someone like Montana, I guess, who's done so well for so many years.	b	Yeah,

sv	He's no Spring chicken anymore.	b	No,

sv	But he's very exciting to watch.	aa	Yes he is,

b	sure.	 sv	I, I enjoy watching him also.

 aa	absolutely.	qo	What about, Marino?

sd	I never was, you know, a big fan, you know.	sv@	I think he'll get better as he gets older. Because he well wa , he was the youngest quarterback there was, wasn't he?

sv	but he's a very young fellow.	b	Uh huh.

sv	of course a quarterback can look so good if he's got a good supporting cast, you know.	ba	That's true,

sv	hopefully they'll do better this year.	b	Yeah,

sv	Miami's had some down years, too.	b	Yeah.

sv@	it's cyclical, I guess. As the players get older, get slower.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah,	sv	I'm sure arthritis sets in with them,

aa	yes, very much so.	 +	you know.

^2	Hip injuries and things like that, yeah.	b	Right,

sv	that forces a lot of the guys to get out of the game.	b	Uh huh,

ba	That's right.	sv	but, they're retired, you know,

sv	So when you think about it, that's really not a very long time, of course.	b	yeah,

sd	But if the average is seven years that means a lot of guys don't make it seven years, you know.	b	Yeah,

ba@	That's right, yeah, * should this be two slash units?	sv	Holy smokes, that doesn't seem like very long.

sv	that's a pretty short career on average.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Of course they play their, you know, cards right and do some good investments, you know, they'll do all right.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But a lot of them don't, unfortunately.	b	Yeah.

h	I don't know.	b	Yeah.

sv	They've had some excellent teams, though, obviously.	aa	Yes,

qw	What is your opinion?	sv	I say yes.

bf	You say yes.	aa	Yes.

sd	I have heard someone else, say that, the Canadian health insurance is absolutely excellent	sv	It's wonderful.

sv	This is evidently this is one of the ways that they're paying for the program plus discouraging the people to quit smoking so they don't have to pay out as many, benefits on like lung cancer and things like this.	b	Well, .

b	Yeah,	sv	and we have so many people in the United States that we spend,

ba	my word, Lynn.	sd	insurance didn't cover a penny.

ba	That's horrible.	aa	Yes,

sd	Well, we're fortunate in that so far, knock on wood, most of us have been real healthy	b	Yeah,

sd	so we don't have a lot of medical bills.	sv	if you're healthy it's fine,

sd	but what worries me is the fact that I don't like the government telling me who I can see and who I can't see.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and ninety percent of the doctors you would choose are on that list.

bh	Are they?	ny	Yeah.

sd	Well, I know that James had it.	sd	McCullum is.

br	I beg your pardon.	sd	McCullum is.

sd	and she was on that Kaiser Permanente	b	Uh huh.

sd	she would have had to wait like two months to get the doctor she wanted.	sd	Well, but that's that's a screw up in an appointment, you know,

sv	But then again, I guess you can even do that in McCullum.	sd	I'm going back to the days when I was pregnant

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I had two doctors,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but when I delivered Ronnie, he was not on call

b	Uh huh.	sd	the other guy delivered him

sv	and that still goes on.	sd	and, you know, if, I go to Townsend

b	Uh huh.	sd	he's got a new partner.

qh	More and more taxes? .	ar	Well, no,

sv	I know that it's getting to the point that the insurance doesn't pay that much on catastrophic illnesses.	b	No.

sd	They don't pay anything on, implants or transplants,	b	No.

sd	and the average person can't afford, you know, a heart or a kidney on just their own.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and at the same token there is something,

ba	Good grief.	sd	and he can get free medical care, but he has to go to the city hospital instead of seeing David and so again, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we went through Ronnie's home tonight,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	So, there are programs, you know, if you get on Medicare or Medicaid or one of those,

sd	that's helped bunches	b	Yeah.

qy^d	or wonder if they're wanting it.	sd	That's what I read.

qw	So what movies have you seen?	sd	well, I have, seen DANCES WITH WOLVES, which is probably the best movie that I have seen lately.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we do get a lot of videos that we bring in,

sd	I saw DANCES WITH WOLVES and, HOME ALONE	sd	I hear that is really good, but I have not seen it yet.

sd	It is.	b	Yeah

sd	It is about a little kid that his parents go off to Paris.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they take a head count and the oldest daughter counts one of the neighbor kids instead of,	ba	cute.

sd	And he is up in the attic asleep because he got in trouble.	ba	dear.

sd	So she made him go sleep upstairs.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And there is, there is a couple of burglars, breaking into the houses in the neighborhood.	^2	and he hears them or something

sd	And he sets up traps for them all over the house.	qw	Who wins?

 sd	he does.	 ba	great,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think.

 %	But,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	that is taking the middle of the afternoon.

sd	well, like, in the early eighties or during the, like the SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT era.	b	Uh huh.

 b	Uh huh.	 sv	which does not make,

b	Yeah.	sv	but DANCES WITH WOLVES did not seem to have anything added.

sv	And it was shocking at the end too.	b	yeah.

b	Yeah.	aa	Absolutely.

ba	That is right.	 sd	they do not have to keep making up stuff if they want to make something good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I hate sequels too.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Usually if a movie is good, once is enough .

sd	Especially JAWS.	b	Right.

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	And I thought, you know, that would not have been the sort of thing I would have wanted my children to see at that age, I mean when they were young.

 b	Right.	 sd	which was a,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, but I do not know that I have seen any of the, sequels to that.

sv	Just more of the same.	b@	Yes, uh huh.

 sd	In one of them they have a mother shark, destroy a whole, marina and aquarium.	 b	Oh.

 +	Which is kind of far fetched.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	Well, the whole movie is kind of far fetched.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, I mean the whole idea behind it is far fetched.

sv	They hardly ever play music when a shark attacks somebody.	sv	not too often .

b	Yeah.	sv	That has gotten to be a whole camp idea now though, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's funny.

 sd	Well, every once in a while, I go, but it has to be like somebody that I like	b	Yeah.

sd	you know. I did not go see FIELD OF DREAMS when it was in the theatre because I did not know it was any good.	 b	Uh huh.

 %	then I,	b	Right.

sd	And then I really liked it.	sv	It was good.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It was very good.

sd^e	when the anniversary came up	b	Uh huh.

sd	that was around the time of anniversary, you know.	b	No kidding.

sd	And then it was on the news.	sd	I did not realize that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I teach in school,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I wondered if maybe he was patterned after him.

b	Yeah.	h	I do not know,

b	Yeah.	sd	so, it was kind of fun.

sd	And I wondered who it was too.	h	I do not know for sure,

b	Huh.	sd	But he is still alive

b	Uh huh.	qy	And that book, have you ever read that book? INVISIBLE MAN.

qy^d	INVISIBLE MAN?	qy^d	INVISIBLE MAN by Ralph Ellison.

 nn	Huh uh.	 sv	It is an incredible book.

qy	did they make the movies after that	 %	the,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So it could easily have been patterned after him.

 b	Right.	 sv	I just thought the, author could have been patterned after that,

aa	yeah.	fc	Okay.

fc	It was n , Nice talking to you.	fc	Very good.

qw	What do you like to watch on television ?	sd	Well, I guess a lot of the,

b	Yes .	sd	I guess I want to see if there's anything I really want to see there, so I don't end up watching the, prime time on some of the standard channels as much, I tend to go to my premium channels first,

sd	and I think our favorite night is, Monday night,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we start out with EVENING SHADE and MAJOR DAD,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I think that's the one night that we really try to watch television.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know my husband's always got it on.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm not always sitting down,	sv	Monday night's pretty good with MURPHY BROWN and DESIGNING WOMEN.

sv	I love all those, that two hours	b	Uh huh.

qy	did you watch did you watch it?	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I like, U S A, when they had their, mystery movies and things, their made for T V movies	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you watch it much?	sd	The only night we tend to watch some of that is on Sunday nights, starting fairly late, like I'm talking ten o'clock and maybe toward midnight.

b	Yes.	sd	and there's a variety.

sd	Now we haven't watched any of those.	sv	They're real good,

sd	now we have watched some things on that.	sd	And I'm amazed sometimes what I see on there.

sd	and, you know, there's this surgery going on as we're eating our dinner you know,	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	and I'm saying let's move right on .	b	Yeah,

sd	But our grandchildren like that Discovery Channel if they're over here, because lots of times it will have things on, animals	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they just thoroughly, you know, enjoy that	b	Uh huh.

sd	in fact, I think they were watching something on, whales, or killer sharks, one or the other couple of weeks ago over here	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, so we have watched that	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, otherwise, of course my husband's into the football	b	Oh.

sd	and, you know, I will watch that some if I'm reading or doing something else, you know with him.	b	Right.

qh	but do we have to carry this on into the summer and the spring you know, all of that,	b	Yeah.

sd	He's ten	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, and we very seldom watch television on a Friday night or Saturday night, because we're not home	b	Oh.

qy	do you ever watch that?	ny	Yeah,

ny	uh huh	ny	yeah,

^2	that are sometimes so dumb .	sv	I mean, some of the,

qy	Are you a T I er?	ny	yeah,

bk	good.	b	Yeah,

sd	I thought, well all these T I ers have gone home, at one o'clock on Friday.	sd	It is Friday,

sd	I kind of worked my way through college as a mechanic as a kid.	ba	wow.

sd	but in the last ten years my car doesn't go to a shop, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I did take it to a transmission place to put in a new transmission but, I change the oil and transmission	b	Yeah.

sd	But I do it for fun really and to save money.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Like I think Sears is probably the best place	b	Yeah.

sd	because, I've heard, when I used to go there and when I,	b	Yeah.

sd	But what I heard them tell other people was always right.	b	Right.

sd	You know, when I sat there, you know, I dropped my car off for tires or something like that.	b	Right.

 sd	they seem to actually have mechanics there.	b	Yeah

sd	And when when I did it the next time, I realized the filter was loose and everything,	bh	Really?

sd	So I'm just doing it all myself.	b	Yeah.

sv	You had to do it.	sd	And, I've done various things.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I guess the last thing I took to anybody to have done was on my wife's car, when we went in for inspection.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it didn't quite pass.

b	Yeah.	sd	So we had to have,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they had to do some adjustments on that and of course it had never been adjusted so they had to pull it off and pull all the plugs out, to get to it.

qy^g	Well, you like Fords, apparently, huh?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	we ran into some problems with, having them work on that carburetor.

bh	Really?	sd	and it rubbed a notch in that.

 ba	My goodness.	 sv	little things like that, that really start to aggravate you.

 sd	I always wonder when you have little things like that happen, we don't inspect, I'm in facilities, } why we don't inspect areas and guarantee it so to speak.	b	Uh huh.

sv	There ought to be an inspector or quality insurance guy after an oil change, you know.	b@	Sure. Sure,

sv	Just in case, they didn't put the oil in or whatever.	b	Sure.

sd	I always wonder about that when someone does repairs or little things like that,	sd	anything that that, that's in a, gets to be an assembly line type operation,

b	Yeah.	sv	and they miss things.

sd^r	I don't either,	sd	But, it, it's, it's real stressful to try to find anybody that I think's going to do me right. and, you know, have an idea of what's going on.

sd	I think I do most of the things better than the average person.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you have Fords and I, I have three Chevys,	b	Okay.

sd	I don't know how long I'm,	b	Yeah.

sd	And I'm, sold on small block Chevy V eights.	b	yeah.

sd	And I, I bought one car new,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I almost accidentally got the next car, although I was kind of looking for it when I got a used car with the same engine.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I buy filters, you know, three or four at a time.	b	Sure.

sd	And essentially the engines are different	b	Sure.

sd	the cars are different years, but the same Chevy V eight.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the course is two are eighties and one eighty six, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	there's no way I could fix every car in the world, you know.	b	Well, yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	If you don't have the special tools or,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't have a forty thousand dollar diagnostic tester sitting in my garage, you know.

b	Right.	sd	So obviously if my car starts missing or something like that, it's almost impossible to track that down any more without a diagnostics.

b	Yeah.	sd	But the tools and the space to do it, that can be a big problem if it's under carriage or something like that.

b	Yeah.	sd	that was the biggest thing when I did, the heater core in my T Bird.

b	Yeah.	sd	and the only reason I did it,

sv	I think they're all bad, really.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You just open the door and pop it out.

bh	Is that right?	aa	Yeah.

qw	What did they want to charge you for it?	sd	well it was about seven hours labor.

b	Yeah.	sd	So it was going to run about four hundred dollars or so.

b	Yeah.	sd	And they looked it over and they, they thought they could patch it up a little bit, you know, and what not.

^q	This is your little water, heater in there, for the, the heat inside?	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, they did a little patch on it,

b	Yeah.	o	hey,

b	Yeah.	sd	It was about a week before I finally through.

sd	But it came out from you know, underneath the hood.	b	Yeah.

sd	It came from,	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	nn	No,

sd	it's been a long time since I took one out.	b	Yeah.

sd	so I'm always very careful when I change hoses on it.	b	Yeah.

sd	I, when I take those hoses, I cut them off very gingerly.	b	Right.

sd	and I've always done that as a kid, you know, just yanked on it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they must have been stronger and heavier copper at the time.	b	Sure.

sd	and I thought, well I'm going to carefully take those hoses off.	ba	You bet.

b	Yeah.	sd	And it had broken loose enough to where if it got hot,

b	yeah.	sd	and just normal driving didn't do it.

b	Yeah.	sd	It was real aggravating,

sd	My wife's, Chevy, it was a Caprice, air conditioning stopped.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I realized that the air conditioning wasn't cutting in.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's not the evaporator, the big filter on one side.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just pushed that in, and I heard it click.	b	Yeah.

sv	you could have taken something like that and thought, well, the compressor's not working. Or it would have taken me all day probably if I didn't do that. But sometimes you have some dumb luck. If you have a little curiosity and you have enough knowledge to check things out.	b	Right.

sv	And I know that's tough if you don't, at least give it a shot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I feel bad about not at least showing them some of the things.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	I said, So you can learn the basics, you know.	b	Well, yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	it, it can, it can save a lot of time and trouble.

qw	what kind of music do you like?	sd	several years ago a radio broke in my car

b	Uh huh.	 sd	and I never,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't really know what too many of the most popular songs are unless, you know, they're in the news or something .

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, so I tend to listen to some of the older songs that were popular back when I was paying attention.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	And then I like some classical music and some of the pieces that have been around a while.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	I haven't paid much attention to most of the current music.

sd	sometimes I'll listen to jazz,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I also like the, the classic rock stations, that play the older, more mellow type rock music .	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, sometimes the deejays are just kind of annoying and irritating	b	Uh huh.

 x	,	ba	That's true.

sd	and I just get kind of tired of all that.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess, I don't like hard rock.	b	No.

sd	I have some rock and some jazz and a couple, maybe one or two country and western. Some, I can't believe I can't think of his name. Garth Brooks,	b	Uh huh.

 sd	And, but it's mainly just the light rock type stuff.	 b	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I never really listened to it because you know, I prefer to have I guess, an established pattern of music to listen to.

b	Uh huh.	sd	back a long time ago, when the rap music first came out it was kind of a novelty, and I listened to some of it,

b	Uh huh.	sv	now that there's just a million rap groups

b	yeah.	sd	so you know, I'm not attracted to that at all,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, you know, if you go two or three years without having that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it really changed my life style and kept me from just having you know, easy access to current music,

b	Uh huh.	sd,qy^g	But we don't have a C D yet, do you?

sd	because I have so many albums and cassettes I feel like, gosh, I'm going to have to go out and buy a C D player and then start collecting C D s,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I haven't gotten around to doing it yet.	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd	and they were really expensive

sd	Just like V C R's, too .	b	Uh huh,

sd	and I can do without it for a while.	ba	Sure

b	Uh huh.	 %	w ,

 b	Uh huh.	 +	without, making them less expensive.

sd	right now, I think. They're somewhere between ten and fifteen dollars a piece.	sd	I haven't even priced them.

ny	Yeah.	ba	That is awful .

sd	I thought, my gosh,	b	Uh huh.

sd	now I know another reason why I'm not going to get a C D player for a while.	o	Take our time.

b	Right.	sd	Well, I can't imagine,

b	Uh huh.	sv	so C D s won't be nearly as handy.

sd	so I can record off other cassettes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't have one	b	Uh huh.

sv	Now you know, one of these days when I get a new car, maybe, I guess all of them will probably have C D s players by then,	b	Yes.

sd	I just got mine paid off .	ad	Enjoy it.

sd	and she's got the cassette, so she can record I mean, I'm sorry, o , other way around, off C D s onto cassettes.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	but but, I just haven't gone to C D yet.	 b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I'm satisfied to just have what I've been used to, not have to think about the great financial sacrifice that that would be, to suddenly try to switch over to all C D s or something.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I know one thing that has colored my music choice is when we had children, I really started to think about what kind of television programs I was watching, and what kind of music I was listening to and

sd	And they get worse and worse, too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, that's amazing how when I was in college, I used to have the stereo on all the time or I had on M T V or something,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'll turn that on while I'm in the shower and while I'm getting ready because there's really not much else I can do	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, and then I listen to it when I'm in the car driving to work because, again, you know, there's nothing else going on.	b	Right.

 sd	I might as well listen to the radio while I'm driving to work.	b	Right.

sd	I just don't bother to do it very much anymore.	b	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so he has a lot of all different kinds of music,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I think that's really good because they're learning to like all different kinds

qw	What instrument does he play?	sd	He plays the,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I never had known anyone to play one before.

sd	I've never heard of that.	sd	But it's kind of like a small tuba but it's not the kind that sits up on your shoulder.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it's a cross between a tuba and an, and, you know, a horn.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So he plays that and a little bit of piano

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he thinks that would be good for the kids .

sd	my parents had me take piano lessons for eight years,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I could sit back down and play a few things, but not like I used to be able to.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's kind of sad that I've let that slip away.	b	Uh huh.

 qw	What kind of pet do you have, Gail?	 nd	Well, I don't.

bk	you have children .	sd	I have little children.

qy	Have you?	ny	Uh huh.

qw	what have you had?	sd	Well, we had a dog before we moved here.

b	Oh.	b	Okay,

sv	Well, you're going to have lots of pets with your children growing up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we do have a very loving cat that's, you know, kind of our baby.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that's because they have a Great Dane .	b	Huh.

sd	They're just huge .	ba	Definitely.

b	yes.	sd	That experience was awful .

sd	that's why we've never gotten a female, you know, in anything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and our male cats, you know, we had,	t3	what you doing ?

sd	He's still out partying.	 b	Oh.

 sd	But, you know I do think that maybe we'll get a female next time and just have her spayed, you know.	sd	Well, a lot of times now when you buy them from like the S P C A or from the humane societies or whatever, their adoption includes their spaying.

sd	It just breaks my heart to see these poor little old dogs wandering the streets looking starved	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, that cat walked in and walked right up to my mother and jumped up and curled up in her lap.	b	Oh.

sd	But it was like he knew you know,	b	uh huh.

sd	and so he was a lot of company to her. You know, and,	b	Yeah.

sd	And when everybody turned we all four of us turned in a row .	sd	My husband that's one thing he hated was our cat used to sleep with us.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Our dog wasn't interested in even coming in our room,

qy	Did he? .	ny	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	So, I guess probably if we get another animal it probably wouldn't be a cat even though I love cats.

sd	and I think that's one of the things that both of us are not wanting to start over with, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, it just really, you know, upset me no end.	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh .	sd	and so then she crawls on the carpet

b	Uh huh.	 +	it's just really awful

sd	and you grieve just as much over them when they go you know, as you would a child.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Any vacations recently that you would highly recommend?	sd	Well. That is like my favorite hobby .

bh	really?	ny	So, yeah,

ba	wow.	sd	and, So, } when I can that is what I do .

qw	what, has been your favorite trip do you think?	sd	Well, I am not sure.

qy	Really?	ny	Yeah.

qy	Better than Europe?	ng	Well, no that is exciting.

b	Oh.	sd	You know, it loses that newness,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I just love it all.

b	Uh huh.	qo	So how about you?

sd	I am from Denver	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we had to write, reports about it during our vacation. which, was really fun.	ba	no .

sd	 and, it had sparked an interest of mine,	b	Uh huh.

sd	That is what she had originally gone to school to do. Was photography	b	Uh huh.

sd	so we are hoping not soon, maybe within the next ten years to get to take a trip over to Europe and take, a trip from the northern portion of France down to the southern tip of Spain, and follow.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It is kind of a backward S shape, trail that the pilgrims use to take, in, back in the medieval times, to see the relics, in, southern Spain and in Italy	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so we would like to take pictures of the gothic and Romanesque monasteries and, just take that journey all the way down and then right a book about it.	b	Right.

sd	it would be	b	Yeah.

sd	it is our big dream.	sv	Well, it would be a lot fun.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My daughter is, a twirling champion

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she had to perform over there in Turin

ba	sure.	sd	and they gave us all the wrong directions

b	Oh.	sd	and there were just two of us.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We sat there,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We finally followed some kids who told us where to get off.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we lucked out

b	Wow.	sd	But, that was our experience

b	Right.	sd	But where we were, it certainly was

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it was very far away on a bus.

b	Oh.	sd	So, you know, it was really, it was interesting.

b^r	yeah.	sv	And you always have a fun experience

qy^d	You said that you have been to England several times?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	It is called, Bemerton?	nn	No,

b	Okay.	sd	Our friends live like an hour outside of England, like Ash, around there.

o	Okay, Ron.	o	Okay.

ad^t	and might you say what kind of cars you have and so forth.	sd	Well, Larry, my last one, unfortunately, was an expensive one because I had a brand new Lincoln Town Car

ba	My goodness gracious that's,	sd	That was a huge repair bill.

qy^g	Well, that's still not enough for a total, is it.	ng	I know,

qy	and do you buy one every two years?	nd	Well, I travel a lot,

b	Uh huh.	no	so I don't know,

qrr	or just are there normal safety belts in it, that you had.	nn	No,

qy	Did that help you?	sd	they didn't go off.

qy^d	They didn't go off.	nn	No,

qy^g	But you were hit in the side, weren't you?	ny	Yes.

sd	you may, you may need to be hit leaning towards the forward to activate it.	b	Yes.

ba	My goodness.	sd	It was

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it did, right eleven thousand dollars in damage.

ba	My goodness.	sd	when my twenty four months is up on this car, I'm getting rid of this car.

sv	This doesn't sound like you've got very good luck with that one.	fe	My golly.

 +	realize that they don't have to drive that way here.	ba	I understand.

sd	and I find that the most of the repairs I have to do here is body damage due to the salt that we have to put on the road to, take care of us in the winter time.	ba	I understand.

sd	and once in a while we have to replace some of the plates in the bottom of it because it's rusted away.	b	Sure.

sd	Well, I di , I had this Cougar the body of it, totally rebuilt, to get some of the rusts that were in the fenders done, and then it all repainted,	b@	Sure. .

qrr	or you going lease it again?	nn	No,

bh	Are you?	sd	so, I usually drive a car for three years,

b	Uh huh.	 +	and anyway, and so, but last couple of cars I've only driven for two years,

qy	isn't it too large for normal town driving, finding parking places and getting in and out the doors?	ng	Well, no sir.

b	Uh huh.	sd^e	no problem at all.

sv	Well, that certainly would be a wonderful, comfortable machine to take on long trips	aa	Yes,

sd	I'm very much aware of that.	sd	I'm like a traveling salesman,

sd	I'm sure it is, because that's the way that I enjoy this Pontiac that I have.	b	Yes

sd	but it's very quiet and very smooth riding machine.	bh	Is that right?

qo	So, what do you think about a year or two of public service?	sd	Well, I know it's hard for young people to think about giving up you know, fr , their carefree years

b	Uh huh.	sd	but people that I have known that have done that, like from other countries, especially, from Germany and Finland, they have such a better, more mature, outlook on life

b^r	Yeah.	sv	and I think they're better people because of it,

b	Uh huh.	sv	they're much more responsible.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they're encouraged to do that, missionary work,

sd	and I spent a year teaching there	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I think it was probably one of my largest eye opening experiences because I come from nice middle class white suburban home	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I wanted to stay close to where I was working on a masters degree, but also because I just thought that it would be interesting to live some place else so totally different than my own up bringing	b	Uh huh.

sd	it changed my understanding of the world around me	b	Uh huh.

sd	after that, you know, you never think of it I guess because I paid for all of my college education myself, I never thought about doing that because I had all these college loans I'd started paying back.	b	Huh.

sd	but now that I'm further along, and I'm still paying these college loans, I think realistically, you know, you can have your college loans delayed now, because I had them delayed because I'm back in graduate school at thirty years old,	b	Yeah.

qy	I probably would have done, you know, just like, is this, is that the Mormon church, that does that?	ny	Yes.

sd	Because one of my neighbors, did that in Pittsburgh, from Pittsburgh.	b	Uh huh.

sd	probably like you said, to be able to travel some place else whether it be the United States or outside the country, I think it would have been a very good, experience for me.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, teenagers in our country are kind of a year that parents don't look forward to and, and things like that

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I think that it would help people to become, less self centered, and to be more responsible when you're out on your own thinking less of your own needs but, of other people.

sd	I think I was paid, about nine thousand dollars to teach for the year	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I, one of the things I taught was a computer class	b	Uh huh.

sd	and these kids, you know, every girl I taught, except for one, was pregnant.	ba	no.

sd	and they were high school juniors.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I think, you know, in the sense, that aspect of public service for education in some of the inner cities for, just social workers in some of the inner cities and some of the rural areas where they just need advice on medical, things, I think it's a really good idea. And even if it is overseas.	b	Right.

sd	I tell you sometimes I worry about things over seas because we have such problems right here in our own country.	b	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the people that I've known like from Germany and Finland that have done that they do military service which, you know, I don't exactly recommend ,

b	Yeah.	sd	but still they have benefited from it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, although I wouldn't want it to make people to go off to the military voluntarily

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they are just a lot more mature, than the average student

sd	I know that my first couple of years of college were, probably too carefree at the, beginning	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then at the end I had to be too serious.	aa	Well, that's right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they do a lot of things to themselves that we really don't want our young people to be doing

sv^t	I think this was a very interesting topic because it's something that, you know, we don't talk about in this country probably enough.	b	Yeah.

ba	that's true.	sd	like in our church, it is, your free to do that or not

b	Uh huh.	sd	you're encouraged to do it because, you know, it helps you,

sd	I spend a lot of my time teaching college students	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I find great disgust in them, in their, their self centeredness and their inability to understand, multicultural or multiracial situation	b	Uh huh.

sd^r	they don't understand,	sv	And they're preoccupied with, drinking.

sd	I think that's, just having a good time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess he's a technical aspect he likes to apply to it, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	today's young people are short term pleasure oriented,	ba	That's true.

sv	and it has to be fun.	ba	That's really true.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think I, have read recently that, the Bush Administration has increased the funding for the Peace Corps.	b	really.

sd	I guess it's some of the peace dividend in the sense, you known,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and some of the are the overseas programs.	sd	Well, I have seen a big change, I think, in high school kids that my relatives , and friends, that, I know when I was in high school I had an idea of what I really wanted to do with what I was going to study

b	Uh huh.	sd	and at least I had some interest in,

ba	that's true.	sv	And they don't have a goal,

b	Uh huh.	sv	They're just looking what's going to pay the biggest cash.

sd	and I guess, I live near Washington, being in Baltimore, it's something like one in four people, in the Washington, area, are lawyers,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I just sort of think that's ridiculous.	b	Yes.

sv	with with the great needs that we need today in science and biology and, you know, the problems we have with AIDS and cancer and how come everybody is a lawyer, you know, you know ,	sv	There's just too many people.

ba	Right.	sv	You know, if you want to be a lawyer because you know that you can provide a service that people need because you have to have lawyers in this country, but if you're just doing it because you think that's the best way to, be rich.

sv	you saw, statistics that lawyers and doctors make the most money in the long run.	b	Uh huh.

ba	that's true.	sv	That's kind of sad.

ba	That's interesting. Uh huh.	fc	Well, I guess I better go.

fc	thanks so much for the conversation.	fc	Well, good luck to you.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Thanks.

qh	So Ken, how do you do your family budget?	sd	Well, we don't actually have a budget per se.

b	Huh uh.	sd	and occasionally it actually balances, .

b	Huh uh.	sd	every dollar we, every dollar we charge is a mile for our frequent flier mileage.

b	yeah.	sd	It's a real good deal actually, if you charge a lot.

b	Huh uh.	sd	So what we'll do is,

qy^2	Well, then you just pay it off at the end of the month?	na	Right.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And so what we do is, anytime we do or make or charge something, we write it out as if we wrote a check.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And then at the end of the month all the money to covered already.

ba	That's a real good idea.	sd	It keeps us hopping.

sd	I put in so much money, each, you know, month towards long term savings, you know, like in, mutual funds and things, you know,	b	Huh uh.

sd	Maybe after awhile I'll rub off on her or something .	sv	Well, you know, you know, you know, what's always good is sort of a for savings , where they just take money out of you're pay.

b	Yeah.	sd	We did that for awhile where,

b@	Huh uh. Yeah.	sd	I'm a graduate student.

sd	So am I.	b	really.

sd	I'm a voice researcher.	bk	okay.

b	Huh uh.	sd	but my wife has a real job.

sd	So does mine.	b	Yeah

b	Huh uh.	sd	And it goes directly to another account, at an entirely different bank, that we don't have access to so easily,

sd	but she saved enough maybe to get her through August.	b	Oh.

sd	It doesn't work, Ken .	b	Gee.

sd	so we don't.	b	Right.

sd	But, you know, there goes my savings .	ba	God.

sd	But, you know, it's one of those things.	sd	I got lucky.

sd	Now, see my wife will do things like make clothes.	ba	Wow.

sd	and she's already made, you know, presents and gifts and things for, shorts for me and things for the summer.	ba@	That was great . With the money savings there. That's good.

sd	but, but, she does have things where she likes to pamper herself that just to me seem like money dumped down a drain. You know.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	I pay what I think is a lot of money to go to a karate class, you know.

sv	You know, but you need a hobby.	b	Right.

ba	That's true.	sd	But she does her nails.

sd	I guess she just stopped polishing them because they were yellow.	b	Yeah.

fe	, my gosh,	b	Yeah.

sd	And lotion, my goodness, body lotion,	b	yeah.

sd	must spend more on one application of body lotion than I do on soap for an entire year.	b	Yeah

sv	It's funny.	qy^g	well, it's for your benefit though, right.

sd	That's true.	ba	, so that's helpful.

sd	maybe after we're not in school anymore, we'll be much better at saving.	b	Yeah.

sd	And that's what's really paying for my time unemployed or whatever. Because the ten thousand dollars in tuition, really doesn't cover living expenses.	ba	That's great.

sd	we're paying double rent, double utilities,	ba	wow.

sd	She doesn't live within her professional income, you know.	sv	that's the killer, two apartments,

sd	so it gets tough,	ba	Wow.

sd	You know, it will cut our telephone bills, you know, by four fifths, you know, if she's here,	ba	Eventually, right.

sd	so hopefully our budget will in increase then.	qy	Have you been married for long?

sd	Just since December.	ba	wow.

sd	and they're about the same ,	ba	wow.

sd	And I was like, well, that's true my dad never said a word, you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So I say if she wants to go out and buy something, I never argue with her, because she's real good at, you know, sort of .

sd	must be cringes or something, you know,	 b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	and I was like, oh.	ba	Had some money in her pocket, yeah.

bh	What else can you say?	ba	That's right.

sd	I think that's probably a really good idea.	sv	You know, you don't even think about it if it's gone.

b	Huh uh.	b	Yeah,

sd	and one went into the checking account that paid the mortgage, and the food bills	b	Right.

sd	for savings , I'll have to look into that.	b	Yeah.

b	Huh uh.	sd	We've had some sort of major emergencies come up, you know, where,

b	Huh uh.	sd	we had an ice storm up here, recently, where I mean, it was horrible.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, half the city owned trees .

qy^d	really, because of the heavy ice.	ny	Yeah.

sd	It broke the limbs.	aa	Exactly.

b	Huh uh.	sd	We had to our backyard tremendous willow tree that just fortunately,

b	Right.	sd	Plus, we went with a friend,

b	Huh uh.	sd	and then we had a car expense like that same week.

^q	What happens if something happens to a car, you know.	b	Right.

sd	If I get busy I don't get a chance to pick it up, like this week I noticed several copies haven't been touched	qy	Well, do you have time to read the paper in the morning?

sd	and if they, go out to play or something I like to keep my eye on them so I'll, you know, maybe go outside and read the paper while they're playing or sit in a chair by the window or something.	sv	You know, a lot of people don't take newspapers at all.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then, well, we've been taking the TIMES HERALD for ages

sd	and I can hear the news, not have to sit right down and listen to it.	qy	did you, did you hear what Schwartzkopf had to say about, Pete Arnett, and, the news coverage?

sd	and so, I do try to keep that in mind that whenever you're reading a paper it usually has a particular flavor.	sd	Well any, you know, TIME magazine and even the news that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we also hit the Garland, GARLAND DAILY NEWS,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I think what's interesting is that there, that as difficult as it is, or as much as they try, they put some bias,

sv	Well, I would really say that that's not true, because it seems like certain newspapers always espouse certain candidates,	b	Yes.

sv	but you'll have a variety to choose from.	b	Yeah,

qy	Do you ever listen to the radio	na	I listen to K R L D, and, K L I F, the news talk radio.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I actually listen to C N N radio.

sd^e	I don't.	sd	It's on eleven ninety.

sd	I really, have gotten out of the habit of listening to the radio from any kind of, even music	sd	Well, when I go to work I listen.

sd	and and then I'll know to keep an eye out for it,	b	Yeah.

sd	but I've got out of the habit of listening to the radio.	sv	if you're around the home, though and, and can watch T V and read the paper, the problem is that about twenty minutes of news radio, or thirty minutes is

b	Uh huh.	sv	that's what's interesting is the C N N,

b	Uh huh	sd	That and ninety eight point seven, I'm eclectic approach.

qy	Do you have a particular local channel that you watch?	na	Well, I watch channel five

b	Uh huh.	sd	That has to do with the weather reporting.

sd	and so we're still shopping , for a favorite channel.	sd	Well the, Channel eight when they came here thirteen, fourteen years ago, Dave Fox and Tracy Rowlett came together, from Oklahoma City

b	Uh huh.	sd	and apparently channel eight was way down

sd	and I like the anchors to be different kinds of people.	sd	I think that adds to the diversity,

b	Uh huh.	sd	there, I know, you know, John Wylie Price,

sd	and, I prefer you know to have a little bit of variety like that because I think you're more likely to get,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But I think that from a justice standpoint, because we have the option of not watching that station.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I'm totally in favor of affirmative action in some of the programs

 b	Yeah.	 sd	and I think that, Dallas, it turns out, though from what I understand, has quite good,

 b	Uh huh.	 sv	And, there for a few days and watch the news and think Dallas really does have quite good news.

bh	really?	sd	Course he pumping his own ,

sd	it's just we haven't found one that we've snuggled into.	qw	Where'd you move from?

sd	I guess because you get use to, you like the anchors,	b	Yeah.

b	and,	sv	It is interesting though,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and shortly after we got here fourteen years ago

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that's interesting.

ba	That's true.	 sv	And I think, if we remember that they're out after the ratings.

sv	So that really effects how they report the news.	sd	Well, it's like the Dale Hansen on channel eight sometimes a little too cutesy

qy	Is he the sports,	qy^t	have you been on the conversation when they beeped you at ten minutes?

ad	I guess it is time to close now, so I can run go help put the kids to bed.	aa	Okay,

fc	Yeah.	fc	Goodnight.

qw	what kind of books do you like to read, for enjoyment?	sd	mainly, the books I read are, business related, or self improvement.

b	Uh huh	sd	I've got a, small company on the side that I do things with,

qw^r	What kind of business is it?	sd	I've got a, small distributorship,

bk	Uh huh.	sd	I, sell a, healthy cookie on the side.

bh	Really?	sd	And, I have a few health food stores that I send it to.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I can get a deal from the ma , from the supplier,

ba	Well, that's interesting.	sd	and then I distributed them

br^m	A what?	sd^r	A drinking water business,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

sv	it's like, life is to interesting to read fiction	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have a real heart for people involved in cults	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, and I have a neighbor with a big motorbike	aa	Sounds like it.

qy	so. Do you enjoy reading anything like that?	ng	I haven't really read anything like that in, in years.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I had my own garden

br	Thirty or younger, Is that what you said?	sd^r	About ten years younger,

ba	that's funny.	sv	And, the problem that I've had in the past with, my children growing up and moving out of the house and still having three left at home, out of the five,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've tried to devote more time to them and trying to get them interested in reading more and spending more time at the library

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, they, they do read them.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

sd	but, anyway, . I did read one chapter of that .	sd	There's a couple called,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, there's a book called LIFE EXTENSIONS,

sd^e	I haven't.	bk	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Dirk Pearson and,

qw	What's the name of it again?	sd^r	LIFE EXTENSIONS.

br^m	LIFE EXTENSIONS?	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I saw him probably seven years ago, on Johnny Carson show

bh	really?	sd	and, I was pretty impressed.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then he embarked on this, vitamin treatment

b	Uh huh.	sd	and at the age of thirty two, I think it was, his, heart was that of a fourteen year old

bh	Really?	sd	and all the rest of his organs were you know, all tested out greatly below his actual age.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, you know, she appeared to me to be very petite

bh	really?	sv	and, it was all from taking the right vitamins and things that give you the strength,

sd	and I know my husband's uncle owns some acreage in, Eastland, Texas, which is in West Texas,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he owns a lot of acreage that's been farmed properly, you know	b	Yes.

o@	you know, and , I guess I'm going to have to wait for the millennium, I think though because I don't think we're going to restore the earth to,	b	Uh huh.

qy	you know what I'm saying?	ny	Yes.

sd	you know, and try and do what I can do out of it that's practical,	b	Yeah,

o@	but, anyway,	sd	I've read a lot of things, since I got involved in the water business back in eighty three,

b	Uh huh	sd	and it's amazing that the legislation they have, for food that doesn't apply to water,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, the basics premise is that if water was a food you know, they wouldn't be able to sell it to you through your pipes because it's toxic . chlorine,

br^m	Because it's what?	sv^r	It's toxic.

b	Oh.	qy^d	I don't know if your on city water,

b	Uh huh.	sv	they know that,

b	Uh huh	sv	The problem is that I've read books that, have proven that there is a link between the ingestation of chlorine and arteriosclerosis, which is heart attack,

b	Uh huh	sv*	and if you look at the history of hear attacks, heart attacks were nonexistent prior to nineteen twenty, / * typo hear > heart

bh	Really?	sd	and we started doing, large quantities of chlorination of water starting around, where we experimented with it in nineteen oh three and nineteen thirteen most of the major cities had chlorinated water.

sd	but it's three or four times deeper than it needed to be,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so they have probably half an acre,	b	Yeah,

qy	Would that be healthier to do that, to drill your own fresh water well like that?	^h	It depends, a lot of things were thought that, as,

qw	What's most important to you?	sv	Well, as far as tangible benefits go I would say that, health insurance of all forms is probably my next most important concern.

b	Right.	sv	I feel that a company that can provide good health benefits such as health care, dental and vision as well as good long term and short term disability plans, goes a long way toward satisfying my needs.

sd	now I don't have that, although I do have a pension that I'm drawing from them which, thank God, I had.	b	Right.

sd	But, man, I think those medical benefits are the most important.	sv	you really don't realize how important they are until you find yourself on the other side of the fence without them and having to cover your own medical

sv	so you might as well not even go .	b	Yeah,

sd	so mine was being put into like a trust fund, you know.	b	Right.

sd	but I don't know if they ever got anything or if they lost all of theirs	sv	I suspect that it just disappeared.

sd	I really feel sorry for all those people that spent all that time there, you know.	b	Right.

qw	what company do you work for?	sd	I work for a little start up company here in Pittsburgh called Trans Ark.

b	uh huh.	qy	Have you heard of them?

nn	No.	sd	we do, distributive system software for Unix based workstations

qy^d	You probably heard of that .	ny	yes,

bh	does she really?	ny	Yes.

ba	how about that.	b	So, yeah,

sd	Well, you did.	qy	So, did Ryder get out of the business?

sd	Well Ryder and P I E went together you know,	b	Right.

sd	and then that ended it .	sv	So that the merger pretty much ended the whole thing.

sv	when P I E and Ryder went together, why that was downhill from then on, you know.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	But when the company goes bankrupt, I mean, they're just cut off completely

b	Right.	sv	and that's exceedingly expensive.

sd	We could do that for eighteen months.	b	Right.

sv@	God, that's terrible. You know.	aa	It's definitely excessive.

sv	but anyhow, and jobs aren't that hard to find, to get another one that does pay your benefits, you know.	aa	True.

sv	if you do get a job, they don't pay benefits.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, there's no dental or vision.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the short term disability policy is a ninety day policy

b^r	uh huh.	sv	And, you know, of course, they can use the excuse

sd	and they're lifting refrigerators into trucks and and everything else, you know.	b	Right.

sd	So I don't know what's happening and what's going to happen.	sv	Well that certainly doesn't help matters any.

qw	who do you work with at this time?	sd	Well, I own the company.

ba	All right.	sd	I'm the president and C E O of the company.

ba	My goodness.	sv	So, I guess, I determine what the benefits are .

aa	I guess you do.	qw	so what are you asking me,

qw	what do you think are the most important benefits for those working for you, other than their present salary?	sv	I'd say in today's economy, besides basic benefits, such as, health insurance and life insurance and some type of retirement plan I'd say that, most of the employees, that we have really like a profit sharing plan.

b	uh huh.	sv	They like to participate in the profits of the company like they're, you know,

bf	because , they have a specific reason to do so, because they themselves benefit from doing a better job.	b	Right.

^2	And it's a contribution.	aa	Right.

sv	You can't stand in front of a counter and do that kind of stuff all day and feel like that you're contributing something to a scientific level of knowledge or so forth.	b	Yeah,

b^m	You're a financial planning firm?	aa	Yes.

qw	How many,	qy^d	You said you retired,

b	Uh huh,	sv	and, it's real important, that their benefit plans that they get from their companies and from their work where they were, that, that it take care of them.

qw	Well, what changes have you considered, in doing it, to your company, that might benefit the employees or perhaps the company itself better?	sd	Well, we, considering instead of tying a profit sharing plan to a salary is tie, a percentage, of business that a person would participate and bring into the company.

qy	When you say bring in, do you mean that they negotiated with people to come in and, ask for your support?	nn	No,

sv	Even though they didn't bring it in, they help it once it's there.	b	Right

b	Yeah.	sd	and then we have financial planners,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, so, we're thinking about paying them, instead of a percentage on salary, paying them a percentage on the business they handle.

sv	but it might be whether the locality there, those people want that kind of support.	sv(^q)	see the thing is that they give support to the financial planner that they're the assistant to, or that they usually have several people they report to you know, that they work together with it encourages them not to, complain when they realize that they get a part of the action based on their efforts and not based on being sitting back saying, well make me do it.

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	See, we don't want anybody around here that says make me do it.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think most people want to be, lack of better terminology, they want to be self employed,

aa	That's true.	sd	that's what we have.

sd	but, for me to try to get it now, it would cost me like over three hundred dollars a month with the same company that was providing health insurance at P I E.	ba	Good grief.

sv	God, the government should come up with some kind of a health plan, or stop these doctors and hospitals from having their prices so high.	sd	Well, I wonder if they couldn't just provide, interim health insurance for people who are between jobs like that.

sv	Well, the thing is, you know, jobs are so hard to find you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	No benefits, you know.	br	You mean the, the employers?

aa	Yes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, you get a job now, and the wages are really low	^2	Because everybody's competing for jobs.

sv	so you just, you know, pray to God that you don't get sick.	sv	Well, I used to think that universal health insurance was probably the right thing to do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, he told me that there're a lot of counts against the Canadian system, which is basically the one people are talking about for here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't understand the arguments, exactly.

sd	I don't understand that either.	sd	I mean we're on a private insurance plan right now,

b	Uh huh.	sd	actually I have my own business,

b	Uh huh.	sd	our health insurance is through my wife's employer,

b	Yeah.	sd	It's always so confusing.

sd	then I just sent cards in	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then } they would just send me a check for what was ever over that, you know.	b	Well, yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but of course that is restricted choice,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	I think it has to do with the, the, attempt to limit cost, doesn't it

aa	that's true there.	sv	you have to recognize that if you're going to have the very best health care possible and, available on demand whenever and wherever you want it, then it's going to be expensive.

aa	right.	sv	And if you want to pay less, then you're going to have to settle for a health system that is not quite that, lavish.

sv	people that's on unemployment.	b	Yeah,

sd	so, it's kind of hard, you know,	b	Yeah,

sv	they'll be calling at my door,	sv	Well, if they're smart.

sv	now I do think the government, though, is going to have to do something, with this problem, because, you know, even to go to a little doctor out here, just to ask him anything, costs you forty bucks you know, just for the visit.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and then } that's another forty bucks, plus whatever else he decides to do to you,	b	Right.

qw@	Well what movie have you seen? Uh huh.	sd	I think the last one that we actually went to go see,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they loved the dogs,

sd	It's one of my favorite even,	sd	we went with some friends of ours,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he's going through a stage right now where he's kind of afraid of dogs barking if he can hear them and can't see them

b	Yeah.	sd	and he did real good through the whole movie except the part where the dogs are sending the message, you know, that the, the puppies are missing

b	yeah.	sd	and it shows the town,

b	uh huh.	b	Yeah,

ba	Good.	sd	but after that he did fine.

qy	is he young?	ny	Yeah,

sd	that makes sense.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, my kids' very favorite, and yours may be too young for it, was HOME ALONE.	sd	I loved that movie.

sd	They think they're so cute.	sv	Probably gives them ideas of what they want to do,

sd	but we did try to go see about a month ago that, DEAD AGAIN that black and white one,	b	Yeah.

sd	and we couldn't run it back	qy^d	Wasn't that good.

fa	And I'm sorry .	bd	no.

sd	We're just not real big movie goers.	sd	Well, I like to watch the movies,

sd	Well, that's us too	sd	and we rent them

sd^r	that's us too.	sd	and now we did go see HOME ALONE at the dollar movie

aa	I thought that was cute, too.	sd	And we did also,

sd	and he wants to see that	sd	it's a funny movie.

sv	I thought the funny part in HOME ALONE that's good for kids, is kind of coming up with how they can deal with problems on their own without panicking	aa	That's true.

sd	and he's terribly rich by now.	sv	I hope he stays cute not spoiled, you know,

aa	me too .	sv	you get to where the money goes to their heads or goes to something, you know,

aa	That's right.	sv	they grow up too fast,

b	That's right.	sd	You know, I'd like to see GREEN CARD,

sd	AWAKENING, is supposed to be wonderful.	sd	I'd like to see SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.

sd^r	AWAKENING is supposed to be wonderful	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	and she said that was an excellent movie.	sd	And see, I've had somebody tell me that REGARDING HENRY, you know, the Harrison Ford movie is supposed to be really good,

b^r	Yes.	sd	I'd like to see that.

sd(^q)	and we have some doctors at church who said that DOCTOR was just wonderful.	sd	I've heard that's good,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I think there's a bunch of good movies coming out.

b	Uh huh.	sd	my V C R went on the blitz about two weeks ago,

sd	HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIANS	b	Yeah.

qy	did you all ever think about purchasing that one, when it comes out?	^h	You know, I look at those,

b	Uh huh.	ng	and, I don't buy them,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I just have a problem paying twenty five dollars for a movie that I can go down and rent for a dollar .

aa^r	I understand that, too.	sv	You know, they don't last that long.

sd	I think with the rebate you could get it for nine dollars	ba	that's pretty good,

sv	you could rent it more than onc , more than four times and watch that.	b	Yeah.

aa	Well, I understand I understand,	sd	or I can make a copy you know,

b	of course.	sd	and I have a copy that's just about worn out.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She's four

b	Yeah.	sd	so she just thinks the grou ,

ba	sweet .	sd	Now, I'm not pregnant, mind you,

^2	But that's, in her plans.	sd	she's planning ahead,

sv	Well, it's hard to find a movie any more these days that you can take your kids	b	Yeah.

sd	we rented ADVENTURES IN BABY SITTING thinking that would be so cute,	ba	I know.

sd	but the language in it is just for no reason, has to stick in,	sd	Now, see, I remember thinking it's a wonderful movie,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't remember the language.

sv	Well, you watch, it differently when your kids are in the room, you know	qy	Was it bad?

sd(^q)	and they go, I know, Mommy, I know.	sd	and see my kids weren't in the roo ,

sv	it's a little different, because you see things from a different different angle.	b	Huh.

sd	we rented Chevy Chase and that FAMILY VACATION.	b	Yes.

sd	And those are just absolutely hilarious	b	Yes.

sd	We had to fast forward through a whole lot of it for them to see it .	b	Yes .

qy	do you participate in family reunions?	na	I did for years.

qy	were they close?	^h	Well, I come from a family that was very large in Bell County

b	Uh huh.	^h	and my grandfather came to Bell County on a covered wagon and had ten children,

ba	how neat.	sd	and so sometimes we would have a reunion with that group.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then, sometimes we would go to Arkansas where they came from and have a reunion with the entire group, you know.

sd	that would be fun.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but now we hold it at, Lake Texoma so that the Oklahoma group doesn't have to drive as far.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we've had as many on a, Saturday night as about two hundred and fifty.	sd	now we would have group like that in Arkansas.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We'd have two hundred and fifty or three hundred.

sd	our family all brought in food and everything.	sd	Well, so many of us came from a long way that we'd usually at a motel

sd	and we go get Kentucky Fried Chicken and bring out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and just love that they have all this little batch of cousins that they get to see about once a year	b	Uh huh.

sd	and our children, you know, thoroughly enjoy it.	b	Right.

sd	Now I'm to the mother was	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I am, now the older generation and doing more of the cooking and watching my daughter you know, more and everything,	b	Uh huh.

ba	my word.	sd	and, you know, we were very close family,

b	uh huh.	sd	and, in fact, many of my first cousins are dead

bh	are they?	sd	and of course they have their own families and grandchildren and all that,

^2	Get together any more.	sd	and we're a long way away,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I doubt that that will come to be again,

sv	and as, as parents get older and start dying off, I think sometimes it is hard to keep the interest going.	sd	Well, and folks have gotten so mobile,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but my brother and his wife live in Nevada, my daughter lives in Colorado, one of my nephews lives in New York City, one nephew lives in Memphis and my son lives here,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I think it's very unlikely we'll have a family reunion, you know.

sd	you probably do good just to get your immediate family together.	b	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But my family's really all dead.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it was great pleasure while we did it, you know.

sd	and we have three grandchildren	b	Uh huh.

sd	but our daughter is really interested.	qy	Does it bother you if your children are not interested in it?

br	I beg you pardon?	qy^r	Does it bother you if your children are not interested in it?

sd	I wish that our son was you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he's newly married and doesn't have children	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, I'm hoping, that as they, you know, are, married a little bit longer and have children that they may be more inclined to want to go, you know, to it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I know that.	qw	Well, what kinds of things do you do to try to get your children interested?

sd	Now when he was a preteen, you know, when he was like ten or twelve he loved going,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and this is more country western group	b	Uh huh.

sv	and that might be the solution .	aa	I think probably that's, a good idea. Because I lived in Iowa for about ten years before I came here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I was born in Ohio,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there are a lot of Mexican people here because we're so close to the border.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they are wonderful people

b^r	uh huh.	h	And, you know, I don't know,

sd	and I do believe there must have been some sort of quota system because, I know a lot of people that in a sense, not, qualified is the wrong word, certainly were deserving to come.	b	Oh.

sd	or there was a lot of uncertainty as to whether they would be able to come .	b	Yeah.

sv	And so I would guess that, you know, there are quotas for different places.	aa	I would think so too.

sd	or, I'm not sure what the terminology is.	b	Uh huh,

sv	Maybe political a ,	^2	Asylum, of some sort.

aa	You got the term.	b	Uh huh.

o@	But, Yeah,	o@	Well, Well, I teach in the suburb of Dallas

sd	I guess I haven't been in a situation where it's been threatening to me.	sd	and, my kids go to school in another suburb of Dallas. with very, very good school systems.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it seems like a lot of the Orientals make sure that their kids go to these schools.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they're head and shoulders above a lot of the kids here.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And, you know, they're just extremely bright kids.

sv	but they just maybe work harder	sv	Well, I think things come easy for them too.

b^r	right.	sd	and they have,

sv	but maybe part of that's the problem that here we've let this value slip.	aa	Yeah.

sv	And they need to have some competition.	sv	But what I see is y ,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it's causing, you know, I think some problems.

sv	Well, that's too bad.	aa@	It really is. Because we see a lot of racial problems in the Dallas area anyway, especially in Dallas.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it's mainly Black and, and Hispanic.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But, there has been some resentment with Orientals in the Black community because they've started businesses there,

sv	that's really sad.	aa	It is.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I've, I've always prided myself on not being prejudiced and you know, welcoming everyone that wants to come here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And even when I was younger when I was in college, I was a member of the N A A C P because I lived up north,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I've, I've become very cynical in the last three, four years living in Texas.

sv	there is too big of a concentration coming all at once to allow for adequate melting into the society.	aa	Uh huh,

aa	Right.	sv	You know, you just don't know.

aa	Exactly.	sd	there's somebody on my other line

b	Oh.	sv	you kind of, you don , you really don't know what to do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And both of my children are really more tolerant of Blacks and Hispanics than they are of the Orientals, for some reason.

b	Right.	sd	And I really don't want that to happen.

b	Right,	sd	But, but it's happening.

b	Right.	sd	And I think a lot of their friends feel the same way too.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and I really do wish I knew about quotas and really wish I

sd	Well, I guess, I don't have much, much more to contribute to the topic.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	Probably if I did, I might be a little bit more, tolerant, perhaps.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and even if I really wish I knew the situations they were going back to or coming from.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You don't know any of that

b	Right.	sv	and for some reason Orientals are very,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And in stores and so and so forth it's, wh ,

bf	Goal directed.	b^r	pardon me?

bf^r	Goal directed.	aa	Yeah.

ba	I see.	sd	You know, just going for it, they take it quickly.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, they don't think anything of that.

aa^r	sure.	sd	and I know that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it sometimes it's gets touchy.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and I'm sure it's a lot different,

ny	Yes,	qw	What part of Maryland are you from?

sd	Up in the Gaithersburg area.	bk	okay.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I'm sure that it's a lot different there.

sv@	I think as I recall in my son's class, there were an awful lot of minorities. And, of all varieties.	qh	Is that right?

sd	I guess I wasn't involved enough to, really stop to think about it.	b	Uh huh.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and it's a kind of a touchy situation.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I wish that we could all just learn from each other and not feel threatened.

aa	right.	b	So anyway,

fc	Well, it was good talking to you.	fc^m	It was good to talk to you too.

fc	And have a good weekend.	fc	All right.

fc	all righty,	fc	Bye bye.

sd@	Of a exercise program you have. Right.	sd	Well, I have a, a former exercise program.

sv@	Well, swimming is, one of the best exercises you can do. I mean as far as for, cardiovascular	b	yeah.

sd	and and it's least hard on your body,	b	Uh huh,

sd^r	It's the least hard on your body as far as, impact	aa	Exactly, yeah,

aa	right.	b	Uh huh,

sd	boy if I go, in the summer time I try to jog a couple of miles	b	yeah.

sd	and, well, you know, even doing that three or four times a week, when summer hits, that's a hard thing to go out and and go jogging for, half hour or so,	b	Yeah.

sd	but so, I'm not quite getting the level that I need to.	b	Uh huh.

na	I like it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, to do a whole lot just requires a lot of, coordination as far as scheduling and that type of, deal, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	Of course, you got a little different direction going,	b	Uh huh,

^2	you don't notice it as much,	aa	Uh huh.

qy^g	You feel it, don't you?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	And things don't fit just quite exactly fit the same.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	there, probably quite a few facilities.	ny	Yeah,

^2	If you can find the time it's just the.	b	Uh huh

sd	it is hard	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's, like anything else whether or not you want to sacrifice another half hour.	b	Uh huh.

sd	My problem is I don't want to wake up another half hour earlier and do more .	aa	Exactly.

^g	right	ny	Uh huh,

sv	as soon as you do it, it's really a release.	b	yeah.

sv	and you feel you feel in a lot better shape just like eating right foods.	b	Uh huh.

sd	If I eat very much sugar, boy, just does something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have to be real careful.	b	Uh huh.

^g	Did you?	ny	Uh huh,

qy^d	Makes a lot of difference.	ny	Yeah,

sd	Well, there's a lot of fat in meat.	b	Uh huh,

b	Right.	sd	and so. I found that really helps.

sd	Fish is pretty good for you,	b	Yeah,

^2	Kind of see what happens.	aa	Yeah,

o@	and, it's almost impossible	sd	I don't know if I'm that brave yet .

sd	your ketchup has sugar in it.	b	Uh huh,

sd	that's that's a problem,	b	Uh huh.

fc	Okay.	fc	Well, good luck to you there in Idaho.

fc	Let me tell you it's,	fc	Well, I'm in graduate school now.

fc	It's a little different, challenge, isn't it?	fc	Yeah.

fc	Where are you going studying?	fc	Pardon?

sd^t	I've been on this list for two months.	b	really,

sd^t	I think I've made four calls .	sd^t	and I haven't started yet because I wanted to get one first see how it worked.

sd^t	and lot of times we don't answer the phone, probably when I get mine early in the evening .	b	Really.

qy	Have you been to any lately?	sd	I was trying to think of the one I went to a couple of weeks ago,

sd	I haven't really seen one since probably August because, every weekend in the Fall we go to our high school football game on Friday then we go out with friends after,	b	Oh.

sd	and that's kind of the our social for the,	^2	That's your weekend.

sd	But, I saw, ROBIN HOOD, which I didn't care for.	b	Really.

sd	and my husband dragged me to it.	b	Oh.

sd	but he just, to me, is not a very dynamic actor.	b	Yeah,

h	I don't know .	b	Right .

qy	Did you see,	ny	Yes

sd	That's the last one I saw, I think.	sd	and I really enjoyed that.

o@	and. I do too.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I really enjoyed that.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	b	so, yeah.

sv	Which most of them probably aren't .	aa	Right,

sv	so they've probably seen about everything at this point .	aa	Probably they have.

b	Oh.	sd	and we had a sleep over one night.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I was hesitant,

ba	I know it.	sd	all twelve,

sv@	We can see some pretty raunchy stuff on just regular T V without cable or anything. You know	aa	Yes,

sv	there's no way to protect them any more.	b	Right,

sv	it'll teach a great lesson, because she ended up in so	aa	No.

sd	But it was a fun movie to watch.	sd	I love PRETTY WOMAN,

qy	the scary one?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I didn't see that,	sd	I don't remember the name of it

b	really.	sd	That was really excellent.

sd	I like scary ones that are realistic.	b	Yeah,

sv	They say is really frightening, too.	br	What was?

sd	, the new one that came out.	h	I don't know.

sv	They say it's really horrifyingly scary	b	Really.

sd	He doesn't like to be scared .	b	Oh.

sd	They liked it.	sd	That scared me to death,

^2@	And it was still scary? no.	aa	yes.

ba	Gosh.	sd	It was horrible.

sd	I know my husband wouldn't have stood for that.	b	Really.

sd	he likes MARY POPPINS and things .	aa	I like that, too.

b	Yeah	sd	I like funny movies

sd	I really like a variety.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we lived there for five years when we first got married	b	Is he really.

sd	it was familiar your accent.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	so that's close, you know,

sd	I don't know up there.	b	Yeah,

aa	uh huh.	h	I guess.

sd	Well, see the accents up there fascinated me, because even in his family alone, there were several different accents the way they would pronounce words differently.	b	Oh.

sd	most of them were twenty or so you know.	b	Really,

sd	and so they were together for all that time .	b	Really.

sd	their accents differed a little in the family	qw	When did you live there?

sd	in the sixties.	b	yeah.

sd	I finally.	sd	I was in New York in the sixties.

sd	I knew it was easier back here.	qy	Are you from Texas?

sd	but I was real familiar with Texas.	bk	yeah,

sd	I went to college here and everything.	b	yeah.

sv	and life is a little slower, a little easier.	aa	it is,

sd	so it worked out.	sd	I'm used to it now.

qy^r	Was it hard when you first came?	ny	yes

ba	my.	sd	and you can imagine what Plano was like eighteen years ago.

ba	I know,	sd	It was very difficult.

aa	yes.	b	Yeah,

qy	Were you all transferred?	ny	Yeah

qy	read any good books lately? .	ny	yes,

b	Uh huh.	qo	How about yourself?

sd	and at Christmas break I read, SARUM by, a fellow named Rutherford.	b	Yes.

sd	well it's sort of the historical fiction about, the Salisbury area in England.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But he did this job well,	ba	Well, that sounds good.

qr	do you find you have much chance to read for just pleasure or mostly for business?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	qy	Have you seen that by Bly?

ng	I don't think I have seen it.	bk	Okay.

b	Oh.	sd	And how they deal with life itself .

sd	I think I have heard about that.	sd@	But it's all revolved around, mythology. as far as, traditions from, other cultures and our culture. And how we, interact with one another.

qy	did it have something to mention about, sort of, cultural rituals of manhood?	ny	Yes.

qy	Is it IRON JOHN?	ny	Yes.

ba	Good.	sd	By Bly,

br	B L Y?	ny	Uh huh.

ba	Great.	sd	And, it's a very interesting book.

qr	do you have a favorite subject to read, whether it be science fiction or history	^h	Well, it depends again if we're talking about ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I read a lot of books in the area of, psychology and self help type, materials.

b	Okay.	sd	always trying to understand people better and understand myself in relation to other people and try to understand where the people are coming from because I'm in a people business.

b	Okay.	sd	my work is my hobby .

sd	That sounds great .	sd	So I enjoy it.

qw	who is your, favorite religious author?	sd	Well, I don't know if I have a favorite religious author.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I would have to say that, some of the ones that consistently put out good materials, you know,

b	Uh huh.	^h	I had to stop here and think a second.

qy	Max Lucado?	sd^m	Max Lucado.

b	Yeah.	sv	Max consistently writes good books.

sd	I've met him several times.	b	Yes.

b@	 Uh huh.	sv	I'd say another, which is a local writer here in Plano, is,

o	Okay.	ad	Well let's start with you .

sd	and I liked it a lot because it had a lot of music in it.	b^m	FIVE HEARTBEATS?

sd^e	it's, It's, it's, Robert Townsend movie.	qw	who was in that.

sd	but it was a lot of music a lot of old songs, things like that.	qw	When was it out?

sd	and, it was called the DELLS,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it was kind of like just about their, their life, and their, history and things like that and from, how they went from stardom to nonstardom.	b	Yeah.

qy	Have you seen that?	ny	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd	that won best picture, I think.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And Costner got best director.

sd	He's doing the Kennedy movie that's coming out,	qh	Another Kennedy movie, .

qw	What have you seen?	^h	One comes to mind here

sd	I know what you're talking about.	sd	I can't remem ,

sd	It's called REVIEWING MY LIFE, or something like that.	b	Yeah

sd	I didn't get to see that.	bc	DEFENDING YOUR LIFE.

b	okay.	bc^r	DEFENDING YOUR LIFE,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's pretty entertaining,

o@	It's, FATAL ATTRACTION .	^2	HOME ALONE.

sd	but one of my favorites, that I can watch over and over.	qy	well, did you ever see HOME ALONE?

sd	I've just haven't gone out to see it.	sd	that was a good one, too.

qy	Was that pretty funny?	ny	Yeah,

sd	but I need to see it.	sd	I can't believe I'm just drawing a blank, because, I've s ,

sd	I guess it was so much suspense.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I like suspense.	sd	That kind of reminds me

sd^e	on that order.	sd	that was a good one too,

sd	I forgot what her name is now.	b	Yeah

sd	Anne Archer she was the wife in FATAL ATTRACTION,	b	okay.

sd	and she played in, narrow margin which was a little more recent,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that was kind of another suspense type, Alfred Hitchcock type thriller.	b	Yeah.

sd	God, I guess I haven't seen too many movies lately.	sd	I haven't seen a whole lot either,

sd	I'd rather rent.	ba	I know

b	Yeah.	sd	but then you end up spending another six dollars on food.

sd	and that's just for a bucket of popcorn, you know.	^2	And a pop, you know,

sd	God forbid you should want something to drink with it,	b	Yeah

aa	easily.	h	And, I don't know.

sv	And you're usually going to go to dinner or something with that.	sd	I was going to say, you know, you can find certain restaurants that are nice, and have good food eat for thirty dollars.

sv	it's almost more fun really to rent movies. You know, just kind of stay at home, maybe.	b	Yeah,

aa	that's true too.	sv	So that's what you're, dealing with.

sd	but then you can make your popcorn and you know, be comfortable.	aa	That's true,

sd	Well that's about all the movies I've seen recently .	sd	I ought to open the paper here because I know I've seen a few that have played.

b	Uh huh.	sd	haven't, haven't been to one for a little while,

sd^e	I never did.	sd	That was pretty good.

qy	Was that Arnold Schwarzenegger?	ny	Yeah,

sd	KISS BEFORE DYING.	b	Yeah,

sd	it looks pretty suspenseful.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Are you looking in the paper?	ny	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	I'm trying to,

sd	that was great.	qy	did you see that?

sd	out of a piece of paper, they can kill somebody, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	and that's what was so scary about the movie, you know. Because he was such an awesome character, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but you were kind of on his side because he was so fascinating.	b	Huh.

sd	but I won't tell you that, just in case you see the movie.	b	Yeah,

ba	very good.	sd	But it's been out for a while.

sd	it should be a while yet, though.	qy	Have you heard anything on, like, OUT FOR JUSTICE.

sd	but I don't like Steven Seagal things,	qy	has he had very many other movies out?

sd	That's why, I, I just don't like the,	bf	Because it's a macho movie.

sd	I don't watch a lot of Arnold Schwarzenegger or anything like that either.	sd	Speaking of that I think TERMINATOR TWO is supposed to be out.

sd^r	that might be good.	h	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they're action filled, and a little bit of humor,

sd	or, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	I like the movies that make you think.	b	Yeah,

qy	did you see it?	ng	I haven't heard much lately.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I just remember when it first came out that it had kind of mixed reviews.

sd	and she said it was okay, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	it wasn't anything spectacular.	sv	You expect more out of, Julia Roberts, though.

sd	but I never did,	qy	Did you ever see the original F X movie.

sd	and everyone else watched it .	bk	okay,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I mean I got in to it,

h	I don't know.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh,	sd	you get these twists

sv	I think though, that movies are losing their luster.	br	What's that?

sd	I can't pinpoint it.	b	Yeah,

sv	But it doesn't seem like it's as big, rage to get the movie theater as it used to be.	aa	That's probably true.

aa	exactly.	sd	it's, it's hard to say.

b	Right.	sd	But, I don't try to

b	Uh huh.	qh	so why go out and see something right away, you know,

b	uh huh.	sd	But, you know, I haven't been to an opening for, you know ages, Just because.

o@	Let me ask you. Do you think the Soviet Union is a, still a threat to the United States?	h	I don't know what to think.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But then there's that side of me that says, yeah,

b	Right.	sd	so it's like there is a struggle within me going do I be open minded and give them the benefit of the doubt which is kind of my basic personality.

b	Uh huh.	cc	I'll do that.

sv(^q)	and I think, that's making Gorbachev and others realize that, hey, maybe this Communist thing isn't working.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd(^q)	You know, they've always said, you know, the Soviet people were united,

b	That's right.	o@	But, it's still, you know,

sv	But I wouldn't doubt if the Soviet people think C I A and they think such bad things, you know.	sv	And they probably do the same things.

sv	They do.	qh	You think the C I A doesn't spy?

sv^m	they do, you know.	sv	Now the difference is I, I don't think we take people and kill them just because they don't believe what we believe.

fa	excuse me, I've got a cold today.	bd	That's all right.

sv	but, just on an economic point of view, if the Soviet Union doesn't do something fast they ain't going to be able to feed their people this, this winter, you know.	b	Yeah.

o@	But, on the other hand, I'm kind of getting fed up with, our own country and presidency, always concerning themselves with other nations' problems when we have so many at home yet.	aa	That's true.

b	Right.	sv	You know, I mean, you know, any country that wants to be democratic I'm all for helping them, you know, because I understand that, you know, you are looking at the United States as the biggest and longest supporter of that type of government.

b	Right.	sv	But at the same time I agree.

sv	but, I think I heard in the news about last week sometime that, the president ended up canceling one of his international trips so he could spend more time on a domestic issue because the American public is kind of getting fed up with it.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	but I am encouraged by what is happening in the Soviet Union.

b	Right.	sv	and I think it's moved in the right direction.

b	Yep.	sv	You know, it's not going to.

aa	No.	sv	It didn't happen here overnight,

aa	That's right.	sv	And think sometimes we forget that.

sd	and where they're going than I do beca ,	sd^t	I know a little bit about it.

sd	but I have kept, my eye on the Rangers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then they kind of fell on their face .	sd	their biggest point of interest has been Nolan Ryan not the rest of the team lately,

sv@	They've got a one man show going there. Which is interesting, you know.	b	Right .

o@	 I guess he can really call down a salary .	ba	it's amazing.

sd	They're so astronomical I can't even imagine that kind of money.	b	Right.

sd	You know it's just, phenomenal .	sd	Well, fortunately the Red Sox, last time I saw the paper earlier this week, were in first place and doing quite well.

ba	Well, good.	sd	I've been really busy at work this past week

ba^r	I understand.	sd	But hopefully next week I'll get back to my normal routine.

qy	you are involved with T I s, speech, recognition?	ng	Well, not really.

bk	okay.	sd	I'm an officer in the Air Force,

ba	I see.	o@	and, they have a speech lab across the hall from us.

ba	great.	sd	And, the speech laboratory does some work with, T I, not in my office

ba	I see.	sd	but, in my division they do, quite a bit of speech work.

sv	but the depth of knowledge is quite different.	b	Sure.

sd	I don't understand football.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	you know, it's such a rugged game that it seems to be too physical for my, interest . Uh huh.	sd	I prefer to,

sd	But I can't relate to football because I've never, played football and don't, have any interest,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but now I have a grandson that you know, is gung ho for, football.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	And, that doesn't please Grandma too much. because the injuries can be very, very devastating.	sd	Well, there's injuries in a lot of sport.

sv	I think the odds are cut down.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, I think that they have a lower racial of injuries, ratio of injuries in baseball.	o@	 baseball,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, for some people it's just,

^2	A love for them.	ar	not so much that

ba	I see.	sd	And so I was always throwing my arm out and, having trouble.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I was a catcher

qy	did you sustain any permanent, injury with that?	nn	No,

bk	okay.	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it seemed to be, like the straw that broke the camels back,

sd	It was never set right.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so he brought me up from like a hundred and fifteen, I had my high game of two eighty seven.	ba	My God.

sd	addressing that , to put the ball,	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I got a lot of, recognition from the bowling league, I guess.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I liked to as a method of, entertainment and I, fellowship	b	Sure.

sd	but, I don't have, Jack standing behind me to tell me what to do .	qy	Are you on any leagues now?

sd^e	I'm not.	b	Oh.

sd	I would have to brush up on my bowling before I even tried to, win a lot of money for the junior achievement, organization.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But that's the only thing that I would, you know, be to do.	b	Right.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	a long time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she's got to be,

qy^d	Still carries a good average?	nn	Well, no,

sd	but, most of the time it is through the news in the evening	qy	You don't get any newspapers?

sd	But the majority of the time now I don't get a daily newspaper where, you know, I get tons of, news coming in that kind of stuff.	sd	I'm kind of the opposite of you.

qy	you do ?	sd	we have two newspapers.

qy^d	You read it in the morning then?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I'm, in a government position that I'm in the news a lot

b	Sure.	sd	so, I kind of look through to see what, I'm quoted in.

b	sure .	sd	But, how bad the quotes are every day.

^2	To see if they did it or if they, criticize you or put something in there wrong.	aa	Yeah.

b^r	sure.	sd	Or, sometimes there's, letter to the editor about me

aa	exactly .	sd	but the T V, I don't really watch, even if I'm on it.

sd	But, unless there is a big issue going on like when we were at war then I think everybody was glued to the T V to find out what was going on.	b	Right.

sd	But, other than that, no.	sd	C N N had the, {F uh,

b^r	yeah.	sd@	At that point, I was watching the T V. On something like that.

sv	and, other people that, you know, do it differently or don't even watch any news at all	sd	Well, the thing is, with T V, I,

b^r	sure.	sv	And, that's a problem that I have is not, getting just a little brief, idea of what's happening.

b	Sure.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	always, I always turn that on

b^r	yeah.	sd	that's one part I watch because I go surfing down here

qy^d	You're not, further up.	ny	Yeah.

sv	I suppose you watch for hurricanes coming in and things like that.	b	Yeah.

b	Sure.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I can predict my week and where I'm going to be.

b	Sure.	sd	So I can be at the beach when the waves start coming in.

qw	Well, what kind of music did you all listen to? .	^h	my goodness.

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	that is a really good question because that was everything from the Rolling Stones to the Beatles.

fa	or, I am sorry,	b	Yeah.

sv	I am going to make you sound like you're eighty something.	bd	Well, I was, I was in seventh grade when the Beatles came out.

bk	Okay,	sd	I was fourteen years old.

qw	What was,	^2	Woodstock?

qw@	what was you doing during Woodstock? Uh huh.	^h	Well, I wanted to go.

sv	You would have had a ball.	ny	yeah.

sv	I kind of would have liked to have been there.	sd	we could not get it together to drive.

b	Yeah.	sd	And here we were all hep to go to Woodstock, you know.

qy^g	Don't you wish you had been able to, though?	na	I really do.

sv	that would have been such a great memory.	sv	It would have been incredible.

b	Yeah.	sd	well, I mean, I remember we had the first Earth Day back then, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	we got out of school at, the university,

qy	You went and planted a tree or something?	ny	Yeah.

sd	when I grew up, we did not have any causes.	o@	Well, Well, you do.

qy	you know what I mean?	sv	I mean there was no name to it.

sd	Well, I do remember demonstrations over busing.	^2	And busing themsel ,

aa	Yeah.	sd	It was like just a continuum.

b	Yeah	sv	And women's rights, I mean, things for women were totally different for you by that time.

sd	By the time I was born, even now, you know, women's rights,	sv	You just assume.

sd	Daddies Are People Too.	b	Yeah.

sd	The judge will usually, give custody to the mother ninety seven percent of the time. Because they go through the female.	b	Yeah.

sv	But it does seem, you know,	^2	It seems unfair.

sv	It really does.	sv	see men are coming into their own now too.

sd(^q)@	He said, "My kids are my cattle." You know. But that is the way most people feel, that women should get custody.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I have got two kids.	b^m	Two kids.

sd	He is still back there in the seventies .	o@	Well, see, bless his heart, you know .

o@	but, you know, to him,	sv	They are going to be back in style any day now.

sd	He, you know, he does stay with it as far as music and stuff goes,	b	Oh.

sd	If I like it I am going to wear it.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, my husband is not a conformist at all .	b	Oh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, the situation you have right now

sd	My husband works for the railroad.	bk	okay.

sd	I want to tend to her.	sd	That's, That's, see, that is your commitment.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You do not know what you are changing when you do something like that.

sd	And my mom had six kids.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I know that it would have been better had Mom been able to stay home with us.	bf	That one person that you could always count on being there.

sv	and they do need parental guidance twenty four hours a day.	aa	They definitely do.

qy	Do you stay home with yours?	na	well, see, if I had some I would.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But my, friends are having babies right and left,

^2	They raise them.	sd	and one gal, she started a business, in her home.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, you know, it is a family sort of unit sort of thing

sv	Well, I think that's neat.	sd	So that is a different way.

b	Right.	sv	And it is good for the kid

sd	But now, we are trying to go back to about the sixties, you know, when the mother was staying at home.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	what do they call it, the nuclear family?	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	qy	Do you have any,

na	Now one of my sisters is down here.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, my husband was in the service when I met him.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I am keep having to scratch his back.	b	Oh.

^2	Outside of, I mean, going,	aa	Right.

sd	I would rather work at home, if I could.	sv	Well, see and that is, the sort of the thing of the nineties is women working out of their own home.

sv	Bringing their computers home and working from there.	b	Right.

sv	kids could see their parents, you know, how hard they work,	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was three and four days a week.	b	Uh huh.

sd	my little boy he went wild. You know, mean because he had been used to me being there all the time,	^2	Being there all the time.

aa	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was costing too much at home, more at home than I was bringing in.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	This generation,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, nothing is the same.

qy	Do you know what I mean?	ny	Yeah.

br	you what?	sd^r	I said, "We passed them on to you."

bf	We passed them on to us.	sv	I mean, you know, because it takes a lot of hard work.

b	Uh huh.	qh	and, you know, did we make the right choices?

aa	No.	sv	I mean, you know, I think we made a wrong choice when I look at the children of today.

b	yeah.	sv	And I think business got in the way.

fp	Hi.	fp^m	Hi.

qw^d	I'm wondering what camping means to you.	sd	When I think of camping I think of bugs , and sleeping bags and tents, like along the Appalachian Trail.

sd	I don't think of, trailers and campers and all this stuff.	aa	No.

qy	do you do much camping?	ng	I have never been camping .

ba	gee.	nn	No.

sd	but, up until, gee, maybe five or six years ago, I did a lot of it	b	Really,

sd	and so, I camped a lot in, the Middle East	bk	okay.

sd	and I was able to camp right in ruins, which was always very exciting and, a bit exotic , for those who love bugs,	ba	I bet.

sd	but, , and then when I used to come back to the states in summer we'd often go up, to the lake country in New York with my brother's family and do camping there.	b	Uh huh.

qy	And you're not going?	nn	No,

by	that's too bad,	sd	So they're really looking forward to that

sd	I grew up camping, being in Girl Scouts and things like that,	sd	And see I was never exposed to it

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I feel like I'm a little bit too, much of a city mouse to try doing it .

sv	a nice tent on the shore of a lake,	qw	What's the best part about it to you, the quiet, the getting away?

sd	and you get up when it gets light .	ba	Wow.

sd	and, I guess just the change, from the rat race.	qy	Now, like do you usually go and there's lots of other people around,

sv	I mean, you know, it's really hard to get away	b	Yeah.

sd	and I guess when we did sites in the Middle East, of course it was with a group, in order to make it safe	b	Yes.

sd	we just sort of put out the sleeping roll .	fe	good grief.

b	Right.	sv	So it's not for the faint of heart, I don't think.

o@	 and I'm very eager to start,	b	Oh.

sd	I love to walk	b	Uh huh.

o@	and, you know, I think that that might be a little eerie at first, going alone.	aa	I think it would be,

sd	but, you know, I'm going to try .	o@	Well. I don't know,

sd	I hope you get into camping some day, just slowly.	ad	we talk about sometimes going up to Chincoteague

b	yeah.	sd(^q)	maybe, like you said, start out slow and kind of get used to it, and find out that maybe it's not as bad as I fear it might be .

sd	and I said, Gee whiz, for twenty dollars we can go down the road and get a motel which we did,	b	Yeah.

qw	What kind of movies have you been seeing lately?	sd	it's been probably a month or so since I've been to the movies.

sd	it's an excellent movie.	sd	SILENCE OF THE LAMBS was good.

b^m	SILENCE OF THE LAMBS?	ny	Uh huh.

qw	What was that anyway?	sd	I guess it's a mystery, you'd call it.

bk	Okay.	sd	And it's pretty good.

sd	and, and, I can't the last name.	b	Right.

sd	we really enjoyed, DEAD POETS' SOCIETY.	b	Yes.

t1	and, who played the father, anyway	b	Right.

sd	excellent movie.	sd^m	that was an excellent movie.

sd^e	we have.	qw	What'd you think of it?

sd	we loved it.	sd	I don't think I can see it enough times.

ba^r	I know what you mean.	sd	Course I'm a Kevin Costner fan.

sv	but, I mean, you know, basic thick western U S accent for a ROBIN HOOD just doesn't seem to fit.	aa	No,

sd	It's a good movie.	sd	It got such bad reviews,

sv	Well, they did a real good job with it.	aa	I thought so.

sd	he worked hard at it.	qy	Have you seen THE FISHER KING?

sd^e	I haven't, an opportunity to see that,	sv	I guess it really isn't for everybody.

b	Yeah.	sv	But I thought it had a wonderful message to it. It's the kind you came out and looked at somebody and said, You know, I think I liked that .

b	Yeah.	sd	And then the more you got to thinking about it, the more you thought, You know, I did like it .

b	Yeah.	sv	But when you first came out, you weren't real sure.

sd	It sounds kind of like one, we saw at home here rented it, CLARA'S HEART.	sd	Haven't seen that.

sd	Whoopi Goldberg.	ny	yes,

sd	she's a housekeeper.	bf	the nanny type.

sd	she. She was now I can't say it, a Haitian.	b^m	Housekeeper, uh huh.

sd	It was just a good movie.	sd	I saw one the other day that was A KISS BEFORE DYING.

b^m	A KISS BEFORE DYING.	ny	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	And it's a mystery.

sv	that takes a good bit to make one that's predictable that's still worth watching.	aa	That's right.

sd^t	It's been down this weekend.	sd^t	Well, I haven't tried,

qy	In the school systems?	ny	Yes.

qw	What school system does he go to?	sd	In North Garland,

bk	Okay.	qw	What school system are you familiar with?

sd	and I teach in Dallas.	bk	okay,

sd@	And my husband teaches with Plano. In the what?	qy	are you familiar with the International Baccalaureate program.

ny	yeah.	qy^g	do your kids go to Garland High, you said?

sd^e	they're still in elementary.	bk	okay.

b	So, yeah.	sd	she went from Austin Academy when it opened up, over to North Garland for ninth grade.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But at North Garland, the difficulty I see with the education system is that, you can, you can get some masses,

nn	No.	sv	Well you know the, the thing that I don't see, and maybe you would take issue with it is that if we went to, if there was an opportunity for teachers to teach year around.

sv	I know when you get the kids that have gone the summer being out of school, then it's like they've lost so much ground, we spend at least the first six weeks just backing up, reteaching what they had the year before. You know.	qw	Well how do we get that?

sd	and Richardson's supposed to start some pilot schools, going to school year around.	b	Yeah.

sd	And then you know, we investigated this by flying some people out from Dallas to observe some of the schools in California that already had it.	qy	Does it work well out there?

sv	and we might as well use them.	qh	Well, what about the issue of air conditioning.

^h	Well, air conditioning, and heating.	b	yeah.

sd	that's forty degrees.	b	Yeah.

qy	Isn't it less?	ny	Yeah,

sv	really, if you go year around there's not thirty days difference.	b	Yeah.

sd	Like I think going two six weeks and then having two, two weeks off, each after a two six weeks period is one way.	qy	Is that,

no	See, I don't know, because I've never seen it in action.	sd(^q)	you said you had some people from California.

sd^e	the school system in Dallas has sent people there to do that.	bk	okay.

nn	No.	qy^d	But you didn't go.

sd	and I know a lot of teachers that would like to try it.	sd	Well, the other issue that I hear that the local commentator I listen to some the idea that the numbers of administration and the fact that the principal,

sd	and I heard that in Dallas, it's one out of every three is actually in the classroom of the educators that were hired .	sd	Well I had heard that one of the comments when they brought it,

sd	It's ridiculous.	sd	the one they brought in, the new superintendent for Dallas schools, the admini ,

^2	Marvin Edwards.	sv	But they resented the fact that he would try to save some costs there.

sd	and they've hired all these administrators in on that, you know.	sv	Well, you know, the other thing that bothers me is the amount of money that it took to contest the football, issue.

qw	Pass or no fail, what is it?	b	Yeah

sd	No play.	sd	I can't think of the name of the school, that,

sd^r	No play.	sd	but in any event they, they kept arguing.

^2	Carter High School.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And they went to court,

sv	And all the things that Dallas fights, costs thousands, probably millions of dollars, I bet you.	sd	But just think of all the, all the lawyers you've kept employed,

sd	And psychologists and stuff.	aa	That's right,

aa^m	That's right.	sd	and all these other people are out running around.

nn^r	No ,	sv	you mean, we need a little more of our tax money, like maybe,

sv	now that's sad, when there's supposed to be what, you know, one thousand, sixty five dollars, something like that, spent on each pupil.	b	Yeah.

sv	But if we could do something like that I'm sure it would certainly help.	ba	that's interesting,

sd	and it's for kids that have fallen behind in their reading according to, like I T B S scores.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we always have to teach toward the middle of the road.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he's not an overachiever.

b	Right.	sv	But that a lot of the schools I would think the kids you're talking to, question of how much reading do those kids' parents do.

sd	My children's parents aren't even there at night most of the time to do anything with them.	sv	Well, but that's the point, as I would say,

b	Yeah.	sv	and that's what makes,

sd	and we're going to do that until at least the first part of May.	sd	Well see, that's in the Garland schools,

sd	But see, they're not in Dallas.	sv	Well, opportunity,

sd^e	we're not working with the same type of students that most of these kids in Garland are.	b	Yeah.

sv	But see, what we're doing is we're turning these kids off to school even more than they are.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	Like our principal says, I want every child to be on task all the time.	b	Yeah.

sv	But we're expecting kids to.	b	Yeah.

b	Okay.	b	Yeah.

sd	If they finish before their thirty minutes is up, then they can go out and play for like maybe five or ten minutes, probably be the most.	b	Yeah.

^g	didn't you?	ny	Well, yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	But, if more people like you though that understand the problems get in and change some education

qy	I think, you guys in Indiana, don't you have the death penalty?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I believe it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know there's a lot of problems with it,

aa	Right.	sd	But, I know there's a lot of problems with that, like, well, they say, okay, if you put them on death row and execute them, well, then ten years later you find out that he really didn't do it, then that life was wasted,

sd	when I was an undergraduate, I was a member of Amnesty International	b	Uh huh.

sv	the eye for an eye was a stupid argument.	aa	Right.

sd	and I, you know, I've seen, I've seen cases in the news and all where, you know, a person who had murdered a person is back on the street and then commits another murder.	b	Right.

sv	I think that maybe, a good solution to capital punishment might be, reserve it solely for, repeat offenders of a crime like, murder.	aa	that's a thought that I had never really had on that which seems pretty sensible.

sv	but if a man's convicted of two murders, you know, there's a pretty good chance that something's wrong.	aa	Right.

sv	to tell you how liberal I have turned, toward this, or, or whatever side that is I've kind of chosen, I believe it that, big time drug importers, like, say Noriega for example that these people need to be, eliminated, from society,	b	Right.

sv	and I think the death penalty is the best choice for those people, because, really any kind of, jail sentence for them is just another chance to, create another power structure .	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	I mean, I don't believe that the prison system that we have today does much towards rehabilitation to begin with

b	Right.	sv	so to me I'm paying taxes, you know, twenty percent of my check or whatever to keep somebody alive who I, in my mind shouldn't be there in the first place and is never going to be a valuable or worthwhile part of society,

b	Uh huh.	sv	so I'm all in favor of it.

qy	are there cases where you think that, the capital punishment shouldn't be, sentenced?	h	Well, I really don't know on that question.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and in that case, Wisconsin doesn't have a death penalty,

b	Right.	sv	and I think that he should not be allowed to live,

aa	Right.	sd	But cases where I think the death penalty should be withheld, not really that I can think of.

b	Uh huh.	ar	I don't really agree with the, death penalty for people like Noriega and such as that.

sd	and they do have the death penalty.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, that was a curious case.	b	Yeah,

sv	something is sort of nightmarish to say the least.	aa	Yeah.

sd	the first thing that comes to mind is kind of those horror movies that you see, where elderly people are abused and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sv@	The first thing that I would look at would be their history. As far as any court cases that came out of there, the history of, you know, their doctors, their nurses, and things like that.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's a nursing home for elderly people.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And this particular one has people that are in pretty bad shape.

b	Uh huh.	sd@	A lot of them have had, limbs amputated, or, have serious illnesses. You know, that kind of thing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the interesting thing was I watched this particular one change hands.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then a new company bought it, and came in and remodeled the whole place.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Hired new nurses and, just redid it, you know.

qw	Just out of curiosity, what kinds of things were they doing when they were considered a bad place?	sv	Well, to me, it was dirty, for one thing.

b	Uh huh.	sv	when you would walk in, the smell was just, awful.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, the floors, if you're walking on them, feel how filthy they were.

b	Uh huh.	sd	there were a lot of people just kind of up and down the halls laying in their beds hollering and, you know, crying,

ba	my goodness.	sd	Of course, I don't know how many of them were, you know, not in their right mind. or how many were,

^2	In pain or something.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	b	And, yeah,

b	Right.	sd	You know, neglect to cleanup.

b	Right.	sv	I don't really think anyone was being, you know, cruel or, or trying to mistreat them or anything.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I just think they were not doing anymore, you know, than they had to do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But this new company came in

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it smells nice when you walk in.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They made a little patio area where they can go outside.

ba	That's great.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	And my biggest fear that they would be, is that they would be lonely.	b	Right.

sv	And I would like to know that there are, you know, just a lot of activities, like you said, you know, just putting a plant in a room, You know. just brightens and, and just makes them, just a little more active.	b	Right.

sv	and, just to know that they're not, you know, laying in a room, looking at gray walls. You know, that's what would just really kill me.	b	Right.

sd	I'd like to know that, you know, they have friends there,	b	Right.

sd	and they have little conversations and things.	b	Right.

sd	I'd like to know there's a lot of interaction and, maybe some kind of activity, little field trips or something.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know how they would do that.	sd	this place that we visit, it's really neat.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they will do bingo.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then other groups come in and do the services, you know, other Sundays,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that they have at least one service every Sunday.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So there are a lot of things.

sd	That's, really neat.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I have other friends.

b	Oh.	sd	Like they also have a dog that maybe needs a home

ba	That's great.	b	Yeah.

sd	That will be something, you know, they would look forward to if they knew, you know, that the puppy is coming on Wednesday.	b	Yeah.

ba	That's really neat.	b	Yeah.

sd	That really is.	sv	I thought that was a real unusual thing, for someone to do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	there's a lot that can be done.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's just a matter of people not being lazy.

b	Right.	sv	And, you know, doing the best they can.

sd	Putting any of my family in an elderly home, to me would be the very last resort.	b	Right.

sv	and I know it's hard for a lot of families if you're trying to work or trying to take care of your own family, it's kind of hard to because an elderly person sometimes can be totally dependent, you know, on you.	b	Right,

sd	and, but it would really have to be a last resort, because that would just,	b	Yeah.

sd	I would feel so guilty.	aa	Yeah.

sd@	Unless I knew that they were somewhere, I mean, just really great. You know, that they were really enjoying.	b	Yeah,

sd	I don't know anyone personally that's in an elderly home.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so a lot them have told me exactly the same story, you know,

b^r	Yeah.	sd@	every time I visit them. They'll reminisce about childhood, and tell me something that they did

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then the next time I go it's the same thing, you know, just somebody to listen to them.

b	Yeah.	sv	just seems to make them really feel good.

bf	Nod your head and smile at them.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but he has cerebral palsy so bad that he just cannot communicate.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, he's blind

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, he's just like in a world of his own,

b	Right.	sd	And if you come over to him, if he can touch your hand, he'll grab it and kiss it.

b	Oh.	sd	and he's always got a smile.

b	Oh.	sd	But he can't say anything.

sv	That's something, that, if I had to work in an elderly home, I don't think I could do it.	b	Yeah.

sd	Like I would really like to be a teacher,	b	Yeah.

sd	But I don't think I could do it. Because I'm very, very emotional.	aa	Me, too.

sd	And I mean, the minute something happens,	b	Yeah.

sd	I cry on, I mean, Hallmark commercials.	ba	I know.

sd	That's just the end of me.	ba	I know.

sd	And so I mean something real life, I just,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm an education reporter,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I always go and do an education things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I meet these kids who are, you know, dropping out of school left and right.	b	Yeah.

sd	they're going to graduate early,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I just want to hug them, and go, you are just fantastic.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, you know, I could just imagine, you know, working in a home like that,	b	yeah.

sd	And those people, they're so sweet and, and so genuine, You know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and all they want is just for everything to be happy,	b	Yeah.

sd	and you know, And so that would probably just tear me apart. I mean, in a good way,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have a three year old and a six year old,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they, have gotten comfortable being around these people, because they've always gone with us,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the people love them.

ba	I'm sure.	sd	And they want the children, you know, to hug them or hold their hand

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think it's because they've gone since they were real little,

b	Yeah.	sd	and they've never been afraid.

b	Uh huh.	sv	people need to take groups of children, Because the kids just brighten up their lives.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	As we walk through the lobby they'll all say, bring her here.

sd	I mean, usually a of elderly people they like to, share their experiences with the, with the younger children.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They'll be telling them all kinds of stories. that they don't even know what they mean.	b	Yeah.

sv	so they need to share it.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I'm sure I'll be like that, too.	aa	Well, me, too.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	I didn't know there were such groups.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, like you said, I'd really have a lot of second thoughts before I put any of my own family members there.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	It would be a last resort.

sd	And I would hate it if anyone put me in one.	ba	I know.

b	Yeah.	qy	Am I going to end up in a place like that ?

ad	Somebody take care of me.	b	Yeah,

fc	well, nice to talk to you.	fc	Yeah.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye.

sd	Well, I've been thinking I'd love to buy a new car, right now, if I could afford it.	b	Oh .

sd	and I think that would be just the perfect family car .	sd	right now my car is terminally ill

b	Oh .	sd	so I am really facing the purchase of a car.

qw	What is it?	sd	well, I would like for one time in my life to have a convertible.

b	Oh.	sd	And, you know, I don't even like the wind blowing in on me

sd(^q)	and it said Toyota, made in Japan, right across the front of all the engine parts .	bh	Is that right?

sd	so they just put different names on them depending on who they're being shipped to.	sd	well, I didn't realize it.

b	Yeah.	ba	I know,

sd	It was real interesting.	b	Huh.

sv	But, you know, I would really want something that I would want for that much money. For ten or twelve or fifteen thousand dollars or whatever.	aa	Well, yeah,

aa	definitely .	sd	you know it's, it's a major purchase, now.

sd	I'd be wondering, you know, here I am buying this expensive of a car and my house isn't worth that much money .	sv	If they held their value, that would be one thing.

aa	That's true.	sv	But when you consider that when you drive them off of the show lot, they're immediately two thousand dollars depreciated.

b	Yeah.	qy	And, you know, that,

sd	and we got more features and air conditioning and whatever on it then we did on our brand new one for twice as much money.	sd	Well, I'm seriously considering going that route instead of a brand new car.

sv	or, you know, make sure that you can have it checked out well enough .	sv@	Well, you know, some people have to have a new car every year. Or you know, at the most every two years

ar	I wouldn't .	sv	and they don't drive them that much.

b	Yeah.	sd	And if I can find one or a repossession.

sd	we bought one like that.	sv	And with the banks being in such financial, you know, problems now that people,

sd	but this one was my husband's	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're usually quite similar, I think.	qy	Are you both from Utah originally?

sd^e	he's from here	bk	uh huh.

sd	so we kind of met halfway	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they, planned it up in the mountains and got a cabin and had, you know,	ba	how nice.

sd	we went to the reunion in end of June and first of July that part the fourth of July weekend,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we had to plan everything like clear in December, January to reserve that.	b	Sure,

nn	No	ba	wow.

sd	this was everybody.	ba	wow,

sd	I, jeez, I think over, three hundred were there.	ba	Wow.

sd	It was quite a large	ba	Wow.

sd	so it wasn't too hard for them to come in the day and leave.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we do that with his family about every five years, a great big one.	o@	that's, wonderful,

sd	And then like immediate family like we try to do one thing once a year.	qw	Now how many people are in his immediate family?

sv	Well, he has eight brothers and sisters	ba	wow.

sd	so that's big by itself.	ba	Wow,

ny	Yeah.	ba	Wow,

sd	So we have a little shindig with them.	qy	Are they all here in the area,

sd	there are four of them who live here in Texas, and his mom and dad.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, the others live in close neighboring, states, like Nevada, Arizona I think like that,	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about you?	sd	Well, we don't really get together,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, my cousins you know, they put on a family reunion, once a year,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's back in the

ba	That's hard.	sd	and that's in New York,

b	Yeah.	sd	And it's not really a weekend,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so, they're all kind of local and close,

b	Yeah.	sd	that would be so wonderful .

sd	and my mom's family does it once a year, just like you said	b	Uh huh.

sd	You can come and go as you please type thing.	ba	wow.

sv	you just cannot do that.	b	Yeah,

sd	There are enough in the area to just kind of span yourself out.	^2	Take everybody,

sd	and my cousins, they just go stay with their mom and dad, you know kind of thing.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And so it's not hard in that respect because they all are pretty centralized in one Utah area	b	Yeah,

sd	but the real planning, that's the real key	ba	that sounds so wonderful,

sd	and that's how they divide it up	b	Uh huh.

o@	and then, she has ten in that family	sd	But then one brother and sister from each family.

sd	and each one of them take their turn.	ba	wow,

sd	And then the parent who's turn it is, her children help her,	b	Uh huh.

sd	like if it was my mother's turn all of us children would help her put it on kind of thing.	ba	I see, uh huh.

sd	My children are all grown up.	b	Oh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm a single parent,

ba	I'll bet.	sd	and then, of course, take care of the house and all this good kind of stuff.

ba	I'll bet it is.	b	Yeah.

qw	What is the favorite thing you do with your children?	sd	the thing that we like to do the most is to watch T V together.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, the kids like to play Nintendo,

qy	You just watch them play,	na	That's right,

sd	but I didn't feel like I was very good at it either.	aa	Me either.

sd	My grandson got me to one day,	b	Yeah,

sd	Different worlds	ny	Yes.

sd	And I don't even know what they're talking about.	aa	I know,

qy	Do you?	sd	that's a neat thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	So we like to do those kind of things.

sd	I know when our kids were growing up, we were big into water sports.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I had all girls	ba	how neat.

sd	so we didn't do too much sports wise.	b	Oh.

sd	I find my grandchildren are very involved in soccer and baseball	b	Uh huh.

sd	and little boys do all of those things	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm constantly going back and forth.

ba	I'll bet you really are.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	o@	so, it's really neat.

o@	but, you know, that was just for a couple of years when they were pretty small for girls	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then they got more interested in other things,	^2	Boys .

sv	but I think that's probably what it was.	b	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	that was a cat that hit the telephone.

sv	I think, the older mine get, the more I enjoy them.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the babies,

sd	it wasn't that I didn't like them when they were little,	b	Right.

sd	but the older they got, I enjoyed them as teenagers.	b	Yes,

sd	of course three girls, they've all become women in themselves that it's been neat to watch them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	what kind of wives, you know.	b	yeah.

sd	How they do things	qy	Well, do the, do your daughters live close where you can go out?

na	Two of them live real close to me.	ba	good.

sd@	most of our time spent with them is, they come over to eat. And bring the kids	b	yeah,

sd	and we play with the kids, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	they camp out	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we spend weekends in the country with them quite a bit,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but as far as doing any activity, now that the grand kids are here, we all just stay around the house mostly.	b@	 yeah

sv	It's too much effort to go somewhere with all the kids.	aa	yes,

sv	They'll always remember it, too.	aa	Yes,

sd	I need to take my boys to do this or that, you know.	b	Uh huh,

sd@	And I remember the year we went to Disneyworld, as quick as my kids are big enough, we're going to go to Disneyworld . You know .	sd	There we go.

sv	they just really can't wait to be able to take their kids where they had fun.	aa	That's right,

qy	Do you work?	ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I work full time,

sv	The time you have with them has to be quality time then.	aa	That's right,

sd	I imagine that they have, a lot of homework, too.	b	Yeah,

sv	and especially if they're active kids.	b	Uh huh.

ad@	we need to discuss the voters. On a national and a local level.	aa	Yes.

sv	I blame it to apathy.	b	Yeah,

qh	Why should I go out of my way when it doesn't matter.	b	That's right.

sv	And I think the other thing is the news media puts such a blitz on it that they had it predetermined with a half of one percent voting, you know.	aa	that's true.

sv@	and by time, say you get off work and go to vote. You feel like it doesn't make any difference. Due to the overabundance of news we have available to us.	aa	That's true,

qw	What do you think on the local elections though?	sv	I think on the local elections it's actually,

sv	I think that the people that have, a lower income, which you automatically equate with lower education tend not to be registered.	b	Right.

sv(^q)	or when it gets down to the point of someone saying are you going to vote today, they say, Well, I would	b	Right,

sd	and I believe in this,	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)	I had someone tell me that, I will never register to vote because I don't want to serve on a jury .	qw	What do they have to do with one another?

sd	I was just so surprised and amazed with the statement that they say only registered voters can be picked for jury selection.	bf	so they didn't want to wind up being a juror ever.

sd	if they don't vote, they don't have to be on a jury.	sd	I didn't realize that actually.

sv	There is convoluted logic for you.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yes.	sd(^q)	Just go in and say, I want to be a juror,

sd	That one was just beyond my imagination.	sv	Well, that just seems to be a person who just you know, doesn't, doesn't, sort of, likes rights probably, but doesn't like responsibilities.

sv	you're probably right.	sd(^q)	I mean, that's what it boils down to, is people say, I don't want to be on jury, you know,

sd	and they had, like a ninety eight percent turnout.	b	Yes.

sd	They were standing in lines to vote.	b	Yes,

sv	And their vote didn't count .	aa	That's right.

^2	Or any one shows up.	aa	Right.

sd	Back gone the full circle.	b	Right.

aa@	certainly, there's a message there. Even if they lose.	b	Yeah,

sv	and I think women turn out to vote for women, too.	aa	That's probably true.

sd	but by golly we're going to make a statement here you know.	ba	That's good,

b	okay.	sd	I don't know her politics.

^q	and she did it backwards in high heels.	ba	That's very good.

^q	don't tell me what women can do.	ba	that's, that's, that's very good.

sd	I'm pretty sure I did.	sd	Say, I, I would think that, that people like that,

sv	Well, and some of the issues are so emotional.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you followed the Dallas elections on zoning?	nn	No,

sd	I don't live in Dallas county.	b	Uh huh.

sd	even the news. You cannot follow what the actual facts are at this point.	b@	Yes. That's what,

sd	I don't really know if some of the poor judges that are trying to decide how it should be divided.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I wonder about them at some point.	b	uh huh.

qh	Should judges be elected or appointed.	aa	That's true,

qy	Are they politicians,	sv	and you don't want a judge to be appointed because you don't want someone's friend to be a judge.

b	Sure.	sd	But on the other hand,

sv	that's one of those you can pick either side	aa	Right.

sv	and we could spend a lot of time on it because it's difficult.	aa	That's right.

sv	It's situational, really.	qw	So, how do you think we can get people to vote?

b	Oh.	sd	So given a choice between, you know,

sd	I was worrying along the lines of you get every time someone puts in a ballot in a ballot box a dollar bill comes out the bottom.	b	Uh huh.

sv	That might work in some places.	sd	that, that, that would be interesting,

qw	So what are your opinions on it?	^h	Well, let me preface it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I'm in active reserve now,

b	Uh huh.	sd*	I was an interesting, in that I think that he gave the American people a sense of the fact that, wars are really run by politicians. / * I > It??

b	Uh huh.	qy	are you old enough to remember the war?

^g	Right?	ny	Yeah.

qw	so when did it end?	sd	Well, December seventy two, was when we bombed North Vietnam, and then they released the prisoners in early seventy three, in that time frame.

sd	and I don't remember a lot about anything at that time in my life very much in, great detail.	qy	I think, the significant thing is today did you, did you see Barbara Walters interview with Schwartzkopf?

sd	So I am pretty fa ,	qw	Well, what's your perspective on it?

o@	but I'm really not. You know what I'm saying?	ny	Yes.

^q	and let's go to war for that way	sd	Well, well, the difficulty I have, is that, are we our neighbor's keepers.

b	Uh huh.	sv*	And, this is what I find particularly difficult in that, if we see injustice, and weather it's in you know, Chicago, * typo weather > whether or, or Dallas, I think if we see it, you know, we see John Wiley Price hollering injustice, I think that's wrong.

b	Uh huh.	qy^t	Now the question is was there injustice in Vietnam,

b	Uh huh.	qh	the difficult, point is to, where do we step in,

b	Yeah.	sv(^q)*	and the, the other part is, the, when your, when your, when your looking at Vietnam, and you say, well, is fifty eight thousand lives worth it. / * 3 typos your > you're

sd	I don't know, you know, I can't say that I agree with Vietnam, because how can you be gentle unto all men, and then shoot them.	o@	Well, the, other issue is, is how, how do you allow injustice. Just like the policeman in Los Angeles how could,

b	Uh huh.	qh	could you stand there and watch them beat that guy.

b	Uh huh.	na	Well. In some cases we would,

sv	and so something good did come out of that, in that now, you see what I mean, if like now,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	qh	and the idea, do we go out and feed these people when they're hungry.

qy	Is that right?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	qh	and the question is, who was he going to pay it to?

b	Yeah.	sv	the communists are all alleged democrats.

b	Uh huh.	sd	democratic formed government,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, you couldn't imagine that one would, would conceal a bomb and and do these kind of things.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think socially, it really destroyed a lot of the people that went over and saw these people.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think there was a lot of tearing of emotions,

b	Uh huh.	sd	now, it was in general, bad,

b	Yeah.	sv	and I think we need a little more justice at home.

sd	and I've kind of avoided that, those, the war things, and how God approaches that because I think it's just now coming up to where I really feel like I come, you know, need to decide, what I feel.	sv	Well, the difficulty is is if you look in the old test meat, and in the numbers of places that, the Lord went out and just simply struck down, / * old test meat = Old Testament

sd	They left a woman, and a child, and the sheep.	o@	And, and that,

o	Yeah.	qy	you know, and you,

ba	I know.	qh	Why did you do it that way .

sv	Bush wouldn't, because it wouldn't make any sense, you know what are I'm saying?	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think that's a problem for a lot of politicians, is they want the glory.	qy	and even at the local level, when somebody's assaulted what do you do, turn the other cheek?

qy	Do you see what I mean?	ny	Yeah.

sd	Beverly.	sv	I think one of the thing that I notice a lot,

aa	that's a big one.	qo	What about you?

sv	or that's what I think is a big one.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And hers isn't a social thing as much as it's a stage they go through,

b	Sure.	o@	So. I think you're right.

sd	That's really in the last thirty years has changed significantly.	qr	in your opinion, good or bad, or both?

sv	I don't know what's causing society to have so many broken families and things like that, because I think that's bad for us.	aa	I do too.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think it was too extreme.

qy^c	are you there?	ny^c	Yes,

sd@	I take DOLL READER and DOLL WORLD . Because I collect dolls .	aa	Different set .

sd	I also take BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so he just sent away to get some woodworking books.	b	Oh.

qw	So what kind do you, get?	sd	Well I have a bunch of computer journals because I'm in computer science

b	Uh huh.	sd	but beyond that, lately I've been reading,

b	Uh huh.	sd@	And lately I've been picking up some of the travel, both trade magazines and just the general travel magazines. trying to keep up on what's going on.

b	Uh huh.	sd	my wife also gets a lot of the food magazines. BON APPETITE, and FOOD AND WINE and GOURMET.

b	Right.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	but she seems to.

sd	but other than that I never liked that really.	qy	Do you read a newspaper?

sd	I can hardly wait in the mornings for the newspaper to get here, you know.	b	Yeah.

o@	But, other than that, magazines, I don't know. There's so much advertising in them anymore.	o@	Some of them I used to get for the advertising. Like BYTE magazine which is, one of the larger computer ones.

b@	okay. Uh huh.	sd	I haven't bought it now for about eight years.

b	Huh.	o@	Because that was interesting. I think a lot of the trade magazines are like that.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	that half the fun is finding out what all the products are.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But, you know, some of the get ridiculous.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so TRAVEL AND LEISURE, FOOD AND WINE and I think they have some others, certainly half the pages and maybe more are pure ads plus they have the advertising supplement sections that are supposed to look like articles but are paid for

sd	So now that I'm into dolls, that's about all I really want, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I think they're interesting.	^2	But not worth it.

ny	Yeah	sd	I've always had this,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I've always had this problem with CONSUMER REPORTS that in the areas that I know a lot about, I disagree with them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I always wonder whether there are people who know a lot about every area disagreeing with them on everything, or what's going on .

b	Uh huh.	sd	So like I've picked up now a subscription to one of the travel agent, organization magazines

sd	Well those travel magazines, more or less, show you different countries that you could go to	na	some of them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I usually just read through the sections on domestic stuff.

sd	Well I don't know any other magazines I could talk to you about.	nn	No.

sd	I don't take anymore than that .	b	Yeah.

cc	Well I guess that will be it then	aa	Okay,

qw	what is your favorite, food for a dinner party?	h	I don't know,

qy	Do you do Tex Mex?	ny	yeah,

qw	how do you make fajitas?	sd	it's kind of like made out of skirt steak

b	Uh huh.	sd	You can buy marinating mixes here

b	Oh.	sd	you can, you know, marinate it in any kind of barbecue sauce you like

o@	Oh. Uh huh.	sd	And, then you put it on a flour, like, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Then you put it on flour tortillas with, you know, guacamole and, sour cream and, you know, all kinds of, you know,

ba	it sounds good.	sd	It's really good.

ba	Well, that's nice.	qw	So, what kind of cooking do you do up there?

sd	well, basically, because I lived in the Middle East for a while I tend to fix Middle Eastern foods when I have, have people over.	o@	 that sounds interesting.

sd	And so, some of the dips are like chick peas mashed with, sesame.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I forgot, , what it's called,	qy^d	You cook them so often you kind of forget their names.

na^r	that's right.	b	Yeah,

sd	now I remember it.	b	Oh.

sd	And, dipping Arabic bread, the thin piece of bread in that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	those of us that have gas stoves bake it on top just like putting it in the gas flame and sort of getting it black, on the outside but mushy on the inside.	b	Oh.

qrr	or is it, turkey?	b	Yeah,

qr	Would you barbecue a turkey or a chicken	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	or, but most the stuff that we barbecue is like steak and chicken and hamburgers, hot dogs, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	the simple things like that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, barbecue beans and baked beans

sd	I wouldn't imagine that a barbecued chicken would.	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	depending on the barbe ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's totally different.

b^r	right.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, it's been fun talking to you.	fc	Yeah,

fc	Right.	fc	I come from Wyoming

fc	in Wyoming it would be less spicy?	fc	Yeah,

fc	dear.	fc	Well, it's been interesting to talk to you.

fc	very good.	fc	Thank you for calling.

fc	bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

sv	I imagine you can't escape it .	aa	No,

sv	Well, of course, it was fun for you .	sd	Well, to be honest with you, I'm not from Minneapolis.

qw	To?	sd	Orlando, Florida.

b	really.	sd	So I'm not exactly a real Twins fan from birth or anything.

sd	I was born and raised near Miami and, spent the last twenty years in Dallas where the Rangers played.	b	yeah.

sd	And, for the last, roughly year, I've been in San Francisco where there are two teams. The Oakland A s and the San Francisco Giants.	b	Right.

sd	but honestly, you know, I do my duty and watch the sports on, the newscasts	b	okay.

sd	but that's about all the exposure I have to sports.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, I guess the, San Francisco Giants and the Oakland A s were like the leading teams a couple of years ago.	qy	Is that right?

h	That's sort of what I gather.	b	Uh huh.

qw	What is the prognosis for, this year?	sd	real good as far as I can tell.

qy^d	I assume that means good for the Minnesota ,	ny	Well yeah

ny^c	Yep .	b	Okay.

sd^c	I think a train went by.	b	okay.

sd^c	but I think it probably was the train.	b	Yeah.

sd	I, sort of gathered that in my, subliminal memory.	b	Uh huh

b	Huh.	sd	and I'm doing mine with Honeywell.

qy	The A s?	na	As far as I know,

b	Yeah .	sd	And in the major leagues, I guess there is a couple of different divisions

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I was talking to my roommate a couple of nights ago, right after that game,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But the thing is, there's like eighty six home games per year.

b^m	Eighty six?	sd^r	Eighty six.

ba	Huh!	sd	You know, that's just the home games

sv	Well they must play every day then.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean eighty six times two is a hundred sixty.	b	Yeah.

sd	And Lord, that's, over five months worth.	sd	That's a lot of baseball.

sd	Even if they play every day, that's over five months worth.	sd	Well, yo , if you consider it, the season starts,

ar	No.	ny	Yeah,

sd	That was the Super Bowl.	sd	Maybe it was November I'm thinking about.

sv	I think you don't know all that much more than I do about baseball .	sd	Well, I know for sure it was,

b	okay.	sd	and it was at least two months after I got up here.

b	okay .	b	Yeah,

sv@	I think one of the most significant changes that have happened is that they've changed from homemaker to the work market. And for several reasons.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and some is they're more educated than they used to be I think.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think sometimes, leaders in government they've become more, adroit in that area, too, instead of just men all the time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We have more women in government.	b	Uh huh.

ad	And, now I'll let you say something .	sd	Well, I probably a little bit older than you are,

^2	Very limited.	^h	And now I see

b	Uh huh.	sv	so many different jobs, which I think is terrific.

aa	Yes.	sd	Because I'm a teacher

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, not that I would give the career up because it's a safe career, plus, because I always have a job plus I am a single parent, too,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I need the income.

b	Right.	sv	and I think that's the reason why a lot of women have started to work, too, is because economically it's just a must.

aa	I think that's right.	sv	it's very difficult to get along on one income unless , the male, has an extraordinarily good job.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And especially men who teach school, they don't make that much money,

b	Right.	sv	it's just an economic need now.

sv	I really think women have so much more responsibility you know, as far as everything.	aa	definitely.

sd	the average today of having a single family, you know, with the mother as the head, you know, it just really, so commonplace, nowadays.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but still there's a lot more than there used to be.

b^r	right.	sd	but I'm really grateful that I went to college.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she was able to make it.

sd	And my mother had a nursing degree and was able to make it in her profession,	qh	Isn't that something.

qy@	isn't that funny? that they were able to do it, you know,	ny	Yes.

sv	and even today I think the chance for education j , is, is so much, better for all of our girls, and boys, too.	aa	yes.

sv	but the girls especially.	aa	Yeah,

^2	A lot of things,	aa	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sv	if they want to dedicate most of their time to that they're, they can do it.

sv	We're not going to see a lax off of women in the work force.	b	Uh uh.

sv(^q)	and I think that they're going to, be really responsible and do everything just like, what you said, you know, make the grade and make it so women can be the top people in their, in their field.	aa	Exactly.

aa	I think so.	sv	I mean, not that I think that I'm equal to men because there's a lot of things that men can do that I, could never do strength wise and so forth

b	Right.	sd	but, also there's some things women can do like have children, that men can't do.

b	Right.	sd	I don't want to be equal

aa	Exactly.	sd	And, And I'm not a women's libber.

aa	Exactly.	sd	I really am not.

sv	And I think that is happening more and more.	aa	I do, too.

sv	I think it's just going to take a little bit longer.	aa	I do, too.

b	okay.	fc	Well, it was good to talk to you.

fc^m	Good to talk to you, Sally.	fc	All right.

fc	Thanks.	fc	Bye bye.

b	Yeah.	qy	Central America, have you ever lived in Central America.

sd	and I did live in, San Polo Brazil for four years.	qy	do you think that we should have given up the Panama Canal?

sv	and, maybe it would be better that we let the Panamanians run it however, I think, we're certainly justified in, our actions dealing with, Noriega in this ...	sv	Well, there are those that, that think that, that the Panama Canal has some considerable strategic importance, particularly for the military.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they, in fact, they had,

sd^e	I haven't.	sd	it's really,

sv	but now we're in a situation where the United States looks like we're it now.	sv	Well the interesting part about it is that, if, realistically it was economic.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, from a technical standpoint it wouldn't have been a lot more difficult to have built it in Nicaragua,

b	Right.	sv	but if there's no economic benefit,

sv	Well he doesn't care as long as he's feeding his family.	b	Yeah,

sv	I mean they make the things that Custer did look like, like trivial.	sd	it is interesting, that, you know we look at the exploitation

sd	and, you know we set up ...	sv	and we stole it fair and square,

sv	I mean, Teddy Roosevelt didn't have the reputation, speak softly and carry a big stick for nothing	o@	but, the idea of,

b	Right.	qh	what's America's role there

sv	I can't see communism in that country carrying on past him.	sv	Well, when you take a situation where I think in particular in Salvador where there is a significant under class , excuse me,

b	Yeah.	sv	and I don't know that I would advocate communism

b	Right.	sv	and when you get enough of them, you know communism would feed them all.

sv	there may be a point at which, you might want to consider some kind of socialistic, organization or socialistic set up to deal with the problem and then be able to gradually transform back to a democracy.	sv	if the guys got some incentive,

b^r	right.	sv	whether he can export or at least, set up trade and all then democracy of a considerable interest.

sv	But cocoa leaves sell real well right now, it seems,	b	Yeah,

sv	that's where your absolutely right is we've got to do something in that region to encourage, or to make him growing bananas profitable again, I mean.	aa	Yes,

b	Right.	sv	Well not that we could be bought,

sd	I never know when the D I A may be, listening on my phone .	sd^t	Well of course, everything we're saying is being recorded

b	Right,	b	Of course,

sv	it's got to be horribly tempting for those peasants.	^2	Particularly, if you're hungry.

sv	and there's dishonor in not being able to do it	sv	starving to death is not a whole lot of fun either

b	Uh huh.	sv	In reality, I think, what they were doing is basically going in and trying to feed some people and help them protect themselves,

qy	are you reading the papers about the Middle East summit?	na	some.

sd	I think I was worn out from Middle East after the war.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, we definitely need something there with all the hostages and what all.

sv	I don't know in the short run it would be really nice to get the hostages all back.	b	Uh huh.

o@	I, I, I guess we grew up in such a different world I could never even imagine taking hostages.	b	Yeah.

qo	But I don't know what do you think some of the long term repercussions might be?	sv	well, you know, I just see this Middle East situation with Russia and everything there that's happened I think that that crisis has kind of slowed down,

b	Yeah.	sv	So, I guess I view it as being the prime importance as far as trying to wind down some of the tensions and everything that are there.

sv	I wish those countries could have the same type of freedoms or whatever that we do.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so I think that's something that has to be considered too.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I was just thinking, well, peace is peace you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that really is the nicest thing.	sd	I guess the question in my mind somewhat

b	yeah.	sv	If you look at, Iraq for example and you know the recent thing with the U N going in there and the bomb development and all this kind of stuff, you know.

b	Uh huh.	fe	Gosh.

aa	I think so.	sv	And I think there's a certain mentality to that's in the Middle East, you know, the constant fighting, you know

sv	probably all of the other Arab countries said that we were sort of wimpy for not forcing him out.	b	Yeah,

b	yep.	sv	so you know, I don't know so much if these peace talks are going to,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, if we, even if we say that we're going to do stuff, I don't know how they'll stick to that .

sv	I think the thing is though I guess the Arab countries that used to argue with us or not support any ideas that coincide with the U S ideas or whatever used to probably receive money from the Soviet Union.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that's really, probably what started the whole process.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	aa	Yes,

sv	I think that they're so much more vulnerable now because they don't receive support from the Soviet Union	b	Uh huh.

^q	but we really won't change in the long run.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think that's the way I sort of see them all working, you know.	aa	I tend to agree with you.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, I think they have in mind what they want to do

b	Uh huh.	sv	kind of the forceful, you know,

sv	I always find it very hard in my heart to align with the Israelis because they seem to be just as bad as the Arabs, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They have to be subjected to all of the Arab bombings, and terrorist attacks and whatever.	b	Yeah.

sd	My grandmother's almost ninety seven.	ba	Jeez.

sd	I mean, I hope I don't get like that when I get old.	b	Yeah.

bf	you don't know if their complaints are legitimate.	b	Yeah.

sd	but he's quite well off.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So they can't hide anything on you or anything like that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I have heard of really awful conditions, especially down the southern part of the the country which is.	aa	Yes,

ba	that's terrible.	aa	Yes,

qrr	Is she of Alzheimer's or something like that?	h	I'm not sure, what exactly is wrong with her.

b	Oh.	sd	Prior to that I was told that she was dead,

bd	that does happen.	sd	And, you know, it was a real hush hush thing

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	and then, I was wondering why my mother always referred to, you know, his second wife as that hussy.

sv	And that happens a lot when people are sick or they just real manic depressants, they end up being put in homes,	b	Yeah.

sv	Even though it's very expensive to stay at home mentally it's just the best thing for you.	aa	Yes.

sv	and it's so ironic is that they go in there and they lose weight.	b	Yeah.

sd	and now they're feeding them, quiche and all kinds of strange food that we would eat.	b	Yeah.

sd	that's the thing my grandmother really misses, I mean, really growls about.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	o@	But, Uh huh.

qr	Do you sing or knit or anything?	sd	Well, I do cross stitch

sd	but that's all I've done.	b	really.

qr	Do you make sweaters and things or just blankets?	sd	Well, if I remember I think we made some, like Christmas stockings,

ba	I see.	sd	Nothing as big as a blanket.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she makes a lot of afghans and all that kind of stuff

sv	It's just too time consuming.	b	Yeah,

sd	I've been trying to get some wedding gigs and things like that.	ba	well that's good.

sd	But, if I could do anything I wanted to do, it would be to sing professionally.	qy	So are you on the T V then?

b	uh huh.	b	Oh.

sd	I work for channel six in Waco.	bk	okay.

sd	It's not as exciting as it , as it sounds.	qy	So you don't have too much time for hobbies?

sd	my day is usually pretty full.	b	Yeah.

sd@	And even if I had a hobby like knitting or something and I wanted to take it to work, I'd probably never get to it. You know,	b	Yeah

sd	Normally.	sd	I'm a housewife.

bk	okay.	sd	So, unless the kids are asleep I don't usually get much done either .

b	Uh huh	sd	But I've made a, few things, cross stitch things.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I made, like stockings for both my children and a Christmas tree shirt and that, type of thing,

b	Oh.	sd	and it just takes a long time to get it done

sd(^q)	and he was like, you didn't make that.	bh	Really? .

o@	but, Yeah.	sd	I guess you can make baby blankets that wouldn't take as long .

qw	How many children do you have?	sd	Two.

sd	I hear them in the background there .	b	Yeah

sv	that's a hobby in itself.	ar	Not quite .

sv	A job in itself.	aa	It's a fulltime job,

sd	I was getting ready to fall asleep.	qy	So, have you sang at any weddings yet?

sd	but I really haven't done anything really, professional per se.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and, I just now got some business cards that say, singer,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean when someone comes in, you know, for a wedding dress, they might ask about it.	sv	that's a good place,

sd	This one woman even wanted me to bring my tape in because I have a demo tape, you know, if any one wants to listen.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	so that would be great, if someone came and heard it, and they were like, I want that voice,	b	Yeah

sd	but, . I haven't got any calls, yet	ba	Well, that's good.

o@	so, hopefully I'll get some calls in. Especially now since it's spring	b	Yeah.

sv	and it's the wedding season, I guess.	aa	that's true.

b	Uh huh.	qy^g	Make your hobby into a business, that would be pretty good,

sd	Then I could be getting paid for something I love to do.	b	Yeah

sd	but, I'd love it.	qy	Did you have training in singing when you were, younger then

sd	I try, you know, in school	qy	Choirs and that kind of stuff?

sd	Sing pop music.	ba	Well, that's nice.

sd	So, that's what got me really, really interested in it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I'm trying to be sensible, too, at the same time.	b	Yeah,

ad	hold on one second.	aa	Uh huh

fp	Hello.	ny	Yes.

qy^t	are we suppose to hear a beep or anything?	h	I don't know,

h	so, I don't know.	b	okay.

fc	and, and good luck with your hobbies .	fc^m	It was nice talking to you, too,

qy	Laurie?	ny	Yes.

sd^t	and I'm supposed to compare those with my habits.	b	Okay.

ny	Yes.	^h	let's see.

b	Right.	qy	do you work for Texas Instruments?

sd^e	I do not.	bk	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and those are only available at T I.

b	okay.	sd	So if I'm in a mall or something I can't get cash out without paying extra money

sd	I'm a traveling person	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I use credit cards quite a lot also as far as everything from service work and gasoline in my car to my lounging, entertainment and for everything.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	she uses a credit card, most of the time.	b	Yeah

sd	so she'll use them more than I will.	b	Uh huh.

ny	Yes.	sd	Same at my house .

sd	They'll have to look up the number because I'm never carrying a credit card.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I do carry like my American Express and my Visa which I use for, you know, primarily work type things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	This is my first call by the way,	sd	it's mine too.

bh	is it really?	ny	Yes.

sv	so we're both beginners then.	b	Yeah.

sd	so this is my first time to, to use it.	b	okay.

sd^e^t	I was given this topic.	bk	I see.

sd^t	you call the eight hundred number,	b	Right.

qy^t	Have you tried it yet?	nn	No .

sd^t	When you call the eight hundred number, they assign you a topic and, pretty, cut and dried .	b	Huh,

sv^t	about two three minutes I think.	bk	Okay.

sd	one thing I've always tried to do is when I get my credit cards, I always try to pay them off because I just sort of detest paying interest.	ba	yes.

sd	like years ago my wife and I got married	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I was giving everyone ten dollars a month and everything like that.	b	Oh.

o@	 Or at least I try to,	b	Yes,

sd	so they should follow the same rule.	b	That's right.

sd	it's an absolute savings.	sd	Or if you travel for work and you get your reimbursement before the bill comes in, you get to keep the money.

sd	Well, I think that's all I have.	b	Okay.

fc	I think you'll enjoy it.	fc	Okay.

fc	Okay.	fc	Thanks.

fc^m	Thank you.	fc	Bye bye.

sv	I think you got it.	o	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we are punishing someone for taking someone's life,

sv	Well, it sounds like you have really strong views on it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And just to play devil's advocate, it never seems right to me, that, we take in people that are criminals and people that are, you know, low income or even middle income that are struggling to provide for their families,	b	Right.

sv	that I find very difficult to swallow, sometimes.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	b	Okay,

aa	I'm with you there.	b	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm not saying that,

sv	And then when you think of the thousands and thousands of dollars that get burned in court costs, you know, we could be poor people and helping, you know, helping the environment.	aa	exactly.

sv	I mean, prison is such a waste of a human being.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It doesn't do anyone any good.	aa	Exactly.

sv^e	people need to be punished,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I do agree with your statement that to take a human life is wrong.	b	Right.

sv	but locking someone up and not getting, you know, any benefit from that for the person or for society to me is wrong too.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I also agree that, I mean, if there is somebody out there that's crazy and cruel enough to kill somebody or in some cases, kill several people at one time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	there was a case in Dallas,

aa	That's right.	qy	You understand what I am saying?

aa	That's right.	sv	I'm, I mean, I'm not for killing anyone,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I don't want these people around, at the same time,

sv	And we want to remove them.	aa	Exactly.

sv	but I think that the whole crux of the problem is, no one has come up with a solution that is acceptable, that does, you know, basically, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv@	and number two, it's it's the punishment, it's the ultimate punishment. Because, you know, they've harmed someone	aa	Right.

sv	and, you know, you want to appease the people that have suffered.	aa	Right.

sv	But it really doesn't take their pain away.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think we should be,

aa	Right.	sv	but prepare them first.

sd	and she interviews, inmates all the time that are coming up for parole.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And she says it is just really frightening how easy it is to, you know, have the prisons release people because they're overcrowded.	aa	Exactly.

sv(^q)	She says, just their emotional state and their way of thinking is so incredibly wrong	b	Uh huh.

sv	and there's not anything she can do to keep them in. You know, if they meet certain guidelines, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and those guidelines keep getting lessened and lessened because they have to do it to make the system work.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But they can't just walk out of prison and do that.

aa	That's right.	sv	There has to be some sort of buffer in there.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Some sort of program or,

sv	I would like to see the money that's been budgeted for new prisons being put into the research of alternate solutions to the problem.	b	Uh huh.

qh	How are we going to make that happen?	qh	what can we do?

qh	What power do we have?	ba	goodness.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, I'm trying to make it with my job, and make, you know, myself okay and make my family okay.

b	That's right.	sv	And it's so hard to, you know, try and be one of the movers and shakers, I guess you would call them.

ba	I know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But it sounds like you are, you know, interested in what's going on around you.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I guess that's, you know, what we're meant to do.	aa	Right.

sv	Maybe an opportunity will come by that we will have a chance to make a real change.	b	Uh huh.

qw	Where do you work?	sd	I work at channel six, here.

ba	That's great!	sd	And so, I guess, I'm pretty emotional about crime, things like that now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I get to see a lot of crimes,

aa	Exactly.	sd	and I get to see, you know, people's, pain and things,

sv	Most of us are so sheltered, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	And a few people in the news that bring it to us and make us see what's out there.	aa	Exactly.

sv	you're really performing a benefit to society in doing that.	bc	A service.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Sometimes, you really want to say that,

sv	I'm just, I'm just agreeing with you. When I think of it, how difficult it must be to just to just give the facts. Because usually on an issue that you really care about, you want to, you know, persuade people to your viewpoint.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that has got to be a challenge sometimes.	sv	Especially when you are dealing with a subject like, capital punishment or something or abortion, or something where there's an no or yes side,

aa	Right.	sv	and you have your side,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you have to report both sides.

aa	Right.	sv	But you really don't want to because you have your side.

bf	And you have to walk right down the middle with it.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	So sometimes that's hard

cc	And I'll read your book sometime.	ba	That's good.

fc	I enjoyed it.	fc	Okay.

fc	Thanks for calling.	fc	Okay.

o@	 Well, that's funny because I just, quit my job to stay home with my kids.	qo	Well, what do you think?

sd	so I know a little bit about it not, a whole great deal.	ad	Well, tell me about it.

sd^t	It's such a broad, you know, topic that you need to boil it down.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, one that, , I thought it was a serious problem, that I'm not sure it's being taken care of right now, was like bilingual education for, different, minority groups and like Asians and, Mexican Americans and just people in general that speak other languages that sometimes come from other countries or coming from different areas they , and in this area,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, as the school district, I'm not sure how to go about it, because it's hard to get one teacher that speaks all these languages	b	Right.

sd	and so the teachers are not sure how to teach them math when they don't read or speak English.	b	Uh huh.

o@	and, to me that seemed like a big problem in the school districts.	aa	Right.

sv	A lot of the teachers were just not getting the backbone or support that they needed or the materials or the extra help that they needed for these specific children .	qy	Do you find that those parents,

b	Yeah.	sd	typically the mother was at home with, the children and, and at least could kind of keep up on what's going on,

b	Yeah.	sv	and really society sort of dictates that, you know, both the parents work.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, I know I've heard some people talk about just the fact that even as far back as the, you know, the second and third grade, if the kids had, you know, proper reading skills or learned proper reading skills that would make a lot of difference.

sd@	and it teaches language too. Which is really good.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, there are some students who are even some who are maybe, you know, in the top ten of their class,

aa	yeah.	sv	It, makes it tough because you know when they come in with scores that low, they may be, good students,

b	Yeah.	qh	so, And then then it comes into, well, who's supposed to give it to them, the colleges and universities or, are they supposed to get that back in the high schools and, the junior highs.

sd	and it is just excellent.	b	Yeah

sv	but it's unfortunate that they don't qualify, because I think everybody would benefit from these programs.	aa	Yeah,

sd	It is excellent	qy	So how many children do you have at home?

o@	and, that's why I quit my job.	b	Oh.

sd	and, you know, being a teacher, you see all these parents who are working and working and working and just, you know, don't have the time, time, time.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know how long .	ba	Well, that's good.

qy	Well, are you in the market for a new car?	ny	well, yeah,

qw	What sort of requirements to you have for your car?	sd	sports car.

b	Uh huh.	sd	usually either black or red.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And electric windows, and power locks .

qy^d	top of the line.	ng	Well, not so much that as it is,

b	Oh.	sd	It is just a real pain,

b^r	right.	sv	so, power locks, power windows are just things that, just really help a lot .

b^r	uh huh.	qo	What about you?

sd	Well, I guess I'm, more traditional in that I don't like power windows or power locks, because the people that I know who have them always seem to have trouble with them.	b	Oh.

sd	so I just don't like anything that I can't figure out why it doesn't work .	b	Sure.

sd	and I want an air bag	qy	Have you ever had a car with an air bag?

qy	Have you?	nn	No.

sd	Somehow I just think, you know, I like the idea .	sd	Well, it sure seems to save lives

b	Right.	b	yeah.

sv	that's a good idea.	sd	And I have never had a chance to,

b^r	uh huh.	qr	But, you think you'd buy, an American car or a European or Japanese?

sd	There was one car in all of the metropolitan area that I could find that, you know, was sort of a medium priced car with a stick shift in it.	qw	What was that?

sd	it turned out to be a Chrysler. , Lancer.	b	Huh,

ny	Yeah.	qr	Did it have, what, a three speed or a four speed?

sd	and they were really eager to sell it.	ba	Wow.

sv	So, I guess in this area, at least, you know, if it's not automatic, it doesn't move.	sd	Well, actually, I much prefer a stick shift

sv	and I thought it would be more reliable.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, you know, the people would just sort of look at me like, you must be crazy when I, went in to, and asked and that was a requirement	b	Huh,

sd	Well, I'm not even sure all of them are anymore. At least in this area.	b	Huh.

sd	but, now the people I've talked to don't seem to have stick shift.	b	Huh.

qw	And so why do you like stick shift?	sd	I guess I grew up on it and it's fun.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it, to me, it gives me more, a lot more control in snow and ice and slick conditions.

b	Right.	h	I don't know,

sv	and actually it's probably safer on, you know, long trips because it keeps you more active.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	There a lot of places to camp in Dallas?	ng	Well, not necessarily in Dallas,

qy	Do you do a lot of camping?	na	Well, I have done camping in the past.

qy^d	Well, that must have been fun though.	na	Well, it is.

ba	Well, that sounds fun.	qy	Do you do most of yours in tents?

sd	I've only been camping twice.	ba	wow.

sd	I don't like those camping grounds where, you know, you got R V beside you and then another people in tents beside you.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just don't care for that.	aa	No,

sd	and the first time I left him we went overnight camping.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we had a ball.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we just had, sleeping bags and fire going.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we fried potatoes and bacon and everything for breakfast the next morning.	qy^d	Doesn't that always taste so much better, when you're out like that.

sd	But my sister in law, she's always done a lot of camping.	b	Uh huh.

b	And, yeah.	b	That's right.

sd	The only thing we'd had to do, we had to go out looking for some kind of a grill, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we, and we seen this old refrigerator that somebody had dumped	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we broke the, I guess it's the freezing component	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we broke that out of there and put it over our, hole.	ba	what a clever idea

b	Yeah.	sd	I wouldn't have thought about that.

sd	We had a good time.	ba	that's a good idea.

sd	we're still waiting to go again.	b	Uh huh.

b^m	Arkansas.	sd	I can't remember the name.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it won't take but you know, just a quick look at a map to find where those mountains are,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I took a drive up through there, as a matter of fact, last September, just took the drive through to see what was there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They have some wonderful camping areas there.

qy^d	Pretty.	na	Beautiful, beautiful country.

sd	so I like to get out by a lake or a, you know, somewhere close where we can swim.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we had a two bedroom mobile home there,

qw	How old are your boys?	sd	they're grown now.

qy^d	so they don't go camping with you.	ng	They go camping on their own.

b	Oh.	sv	Once you start them, they enjoy it all their lives.

sd	well, I haven't taken my little boy yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He is so fearless, it terrifies me.	b	Uh huh

qy	Think so?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	He'll go out into it until it's up to his nose and then try to tread back .	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we'd have a little contest finding the tiniest shell, and finding the biggest shell.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we did a lot of naturalist work when we were out.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we ate the wild plants

b	Yeah.	sv	the mountains can accommodate you if you know what to find.

bc	If you know what to look for.	aa	Uh huh.

ba	Well, that sounds so neat.	sd	And, we cooked in a pot.

b	Yeah.	sd	I used a tire chain and the bottom of a Dutch oven.

sd	and that's who I stayed with.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So we didn't do much outdoors stuff, except swimming	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we went swimming a lot.	b	Uh huh.

ba	I know.	ad	Well, if our time is up we can quit.

sd	appreciate it.	b	Okay.

fc	Thank you.	fc	You bet,

sd^t	and, there very few people that are on the list for calls, on the weekends nights.	b	Uh huh,

qy	are you part of the school system out there?	na	I am, as a matter of fact.

sv^t	I guess they pass the names amongst your computer students, or whatever.	b	Yeah,

ba^r	great.	b	Yeah,

ba	That's wonderful.	sd^t	So, you know, I know about this project,

sd^t	He had a roommate that had calls and everything.	b	Uh huh.

sv	of course, we at T I just hoping it works out that the new products that they come out will, sell like gang busters, really.	b	Yeah.

qw	what do you think, about Latin America?	^h	let's see,

b^m	Latin America,	h	I don't know whether I have any real profound thoughts about that,

sv	that is sad. not that we can, sell any great program we have with crime,	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't really know why though.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	I mean certainly we took far more from Mexico than Saddam Hussein ever dreamed of taking, in his wildest dreams from his neighbors.

sv	We think of ourselves as the only Americans, when they're Americans, too.	b	Yeah,

b	yes	sv	And they can stand on their heads if they want too,

sd	I know.	sv	I just don't think of Mexicans as being North Americans, although, I guess, strictly speaking they are.

sv	and they want us to say we're the North Americans.	b	I see .

sv	and they're South Americans,	h	I don't know.

sv	it's not my point, I guess,	b	Yeah,

sv	there, there may be some organized way to do this.	b	Yeah.

sd	getting thrown back I guess is all that, happens.	b	Yeah.

sv	we see it, you know, once a month. I'm sure in San Antonio they see it more often than that.	sd	Well I grew up in Los Angeles.

sd	well you saw it out there then, too.	sd	And, in fact, I drove a cab when I was a graduate student

b	Uh huh.	sd	And certainly, you know, knew that problem,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, it was pretty wild.

sd	and there's got to be a lot of potential for business down there, for the products certainly that we make and everything.	b	Yeah.

sv	And we need to do more of that, somehow. And encourage more business, between us.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, there's got to be a lot of potential down there.	b	Yeah,

qw^r	What are you taking in school?	sd	Well I am actually,

^2	you're an instructor,	aa	Yeah.

sd	you said.	b	Yeah,

qw(^q)	you said, what were you saying you were teaching there?	b	Yeah,

sv	they've got to be analyzing with a voice recorder some how.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and what is said.

b	Right.	sd	And they're able to average it over a number of different occasions because peoples voices change a lot even from morning to evening

sv	your voice echoes in your own head which makes it different than what it really sounds to other people.	b	Yeah.

sd	and you always hear your own voice in recordings and say, my God, that's obviously that's not me, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I've told my wife, that one of the reasons they're doing it is because eventually you'll be able to talk to your computer,	b	Right.

qy	Are you a T I er,	nn	No,

qy^d^t	but I guess customers too,	sv^t	And, I think a great number of students who got word of it and participated in general and voiced who heard about the program.

ad^t	you've got the question you can go first there, since I called.	sd	I rely primarily on, newspaper combined with television.

sd	so that's a half an hour roughly the same with newspaper.	b	Okay.

sd	so a real radio buff, especially when I'm doing chores.	ba	That's rather interesting.

sv	You probably haven't either unless you're a radio buff.	aa	I'd have to say I haven't either.

sd	But, I'm, I am kind of a radio buff.	sd	I listen to the radio, probably five or six hours a week,

^2	For music?	sd	We don't use the radio as a wake up,

b	Yeah.	sd	and it comes on with C N N in the morning.

ba	That's good.	sd	we wake up to television news and, shower and dress, and whatever to that,

ba	that's good.	sd	and occasionally what we'll each do depending on whoever is driving is have the newspaper sort of on our lap on the way in the car,

sd(^q)	she says, look at that person he's driving and reading at the same time .	sv	So, we rely pretty heavily, I think, on a combination of the two.

b	Yeah.	sd	we tend to alternate between NEWSWEEK and TIME and whatever happens to be the, the, news magazine of the year for us.

b	Right.	sd	and, I read sporadically of commentary and a couple of other, you know, trade magazines, such as that, where I might read the, the occasional social and even current event commentaries, and everything as diverse as A C M to, some of the other tabloids I get.

ad	Go ahead ,	sv	I've always said that it's really not interesting unless it's three weeks old and found its way into a news weekly headline.

aa	That's a good point.	sd	other than that it was a at best.

sd	It comes and goes.	sd	we're probably not thrilled with our only newspaper that we have in Raleigh.

b	Yeah.	sd	it depends.

b^m	Local you mean?	sv	And, consequently everything is filtered through that, Republican Democratic sort of, glass, almost unnecessarily

sd	We have that addition to our paper.	ny	Yeah,

bf	, you get it from people then.	aa	Right.

aa	Right.	sv	and that probably gives us a better insight as to the city of Raleigh than the paper would have anyway.

sd	But, I always get a lot of my information from the, newspaper through her.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	you mentioned C N N, of course I mentioned radio and the C N N T V news, you know?	ny	Uh huh.

sv	It's the same thing that's on the radio, word for word.	qy	Is that right?

o@	it, Well, it is C N N exactly. because,	b	Okay.

sd	we have it here at work as a matter if fact, at T I.	b	Okay.

sv	you don't really miss anything.	b	Uh huh.

ad	your turn.	sd	we probably were listening to C N N fairly heavily before the war broadcasts began.

sd	I've heard that,	sd	and, and we could equate or relate relay well to some of the newspaper and television articles about the fact that people where having this problem in uncoupling from the events, and going on with their.

b	Right .	sd	instead of watching the missiles and being glued to the tube or whatever.

b	Right.	sd	and then we would turn the television off

b	yeah.	sd	And, that was the sort of thing that I would say is the best

b	Yeah.	sd	unless there's some trend or something that says, Jesus this neighborhood has been hit forty seven times or whatever. that's sort of more of a pattern news.

qw	What do you think has occurred there?	sv	Well, I think one of the major changes is the whole attitude towards women in the work place and the role of women in doing jobs outside of the home.

sd	responsibilities is what I am trying to say.	ng	I don't think so.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I still think in lots of job markets they are not treated as equals.

aap	By the same token, in most cases, women have the jobs with the same responsibility of men who have been there before, but at lower salaries.	aa	Yes

qy	Is that right and wrong?	sv	And I think that's what we really ought to look at that, if they are going to do equal work they ought to get equal pay.

aa	Yes.	sv	And they ought to have equal opportunities to advance to those positions

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I don't think that we have gotten there yet.

qy^d	Any individual thing	ba	boy.

qrr	or is it just a general switch over?	sv	I think it's generally that switch over.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So they have one and three quarters jobs now. Whereas the husbands have one and a quarter.

sv@	I have a feeling that business with the woman working out at the same level of responsibility as their husband sort of tears into their social or their loving relationship. In that, the lady needs to stand up for what she has made and her own rights and has a right to do so	b	Yeah.

qy	So do you think that is going to be difficult saying as far as marriages and people enjoying each other in the future years?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So I think it really has put some additional stresses on the family units.

qy	Well, do you have any opinion of potential changes that may occur in the next generation, specifically?	na	Well, I think one of the things that always happens is I think is when the one end you know were moving out to the end where a lot of women will be at work

b	Uh huh.	sv	and then I think we are starting to see now some tendency of women at mid thirties

b	Uh huh.	sv	Also, much of it is driven by economics right now.

aa	Yes.	sv	People have gotten out and gotten use to incomes coming in.

sv	a lot of women are being hired now instead of men because they can get brought in at lower salaries because that's what everybody else assumes they are going to get.	b	Yeah.

qw	Well, how do you feel about women in, armed services?	sv	Well, I think they ought to have the right.

b	Yeah.	sv	but I have problems with men doing that

qh	I mean how are they going to protect themselves so to speak.	aa	I agree.

sv	I really don't go for that.	sv	I think one of the other things that has concerned me a little bit,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there's, has been a tendency over the past few years to treat her as though she was somebody who didn't have much intelligence because if she did she would be out in the work force, fulfilling herself.

sv	and you're going to learn there is a lot of responsibility just keeping the home going .	sv	And I hope we reach the point where whatever women chose to do, that's acceptable.

b	Yeah.	sv	If they chose to go into the work force that's okay.

b	Yeah.	sv	If they chose not to, that's acceptable.

sv	And if they go into the work force, they should be treated as nicely as well as a man or any other person.	^2	As equals.

sd	and you don't want them up that early.	qy	Would you then go hiking.

sd	Very comfortable,	qy	Were you up in Wisconsin

sd	There's the Apostle Islands, which are in Bayfield which is a wonderful place.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then there's also, what we found, in the state of, South Dakota, the Black Hills.	b	yeah.

qh	if you're going to go camping, who wants to deal with bugs	b	Right .

o@	so. Uh huh.	b	yeah.

b	Sure.	sd	it wasn't even a full tent.

b	Sure.	sd@	and my dad would take, four kids. My brother and myself and two cousins

b	Sure.	sd	and, we just thought it was absolute heaven.

b^r	yeah.	sd	there was certainly nothing like a bathroom, a shower or anything, near by .

^2	Anymore.	sd	actually some friends of mine and I are planning to camp this summer, for four days.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I have a idea it's going to be a lot more equipment and a lot more stuff than before.

b	uh huh.	aa	Yeah.

sd(^q)	But as adults, it's like if I don't take a shower every day, I feel like, you know, ooh.	b	Yeah.

sd	If you can find, some really nice, clean, campgrounds versus, if you go to state parks,	ba	my.

sd	If you're going to be gone all day long, walking someplace or doing tourism or whatever you're camping really is just for like in the evening to start the fire, to sit back and watch a fire, to enjoy that, you know, and then to get up in the morning and get a shower and get cleaned up, that kind of stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then every year I grow a garden.	qy	you do actually, grow a garden to produce food?

ny	Yes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then in the back I'd say we have about an eighth of an acre	b	Uh huh.

sd	but then I've got, a twenty five by twenty area that I do gardening, as far as, you know, tomatoes and cucumbers and beans	bk	that's what I was curious about,

sd^e	we have a separate area for the garden.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and we tried a watermelon.	b	Oh.

na	But just on the limited basis that I do it, I do enjoy it very much.	b	Uh huh.

ba	wow.	sd	And, for many years I grew sweet corn,

ba	How about that.	sd	So we had a nice thing going there,

ba	Well, that's nice.	sd	it is very, very nice.

bf	That much land requires an awful lot of time.	aa	Yes,

ba	How about that.	sd	So he had his own backyard garden, too.

qw	What's a good apple to bake pies with?	sd	I use my Golden Delicious,

sd	I saw, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY and FLATLINERS.	b	Yes,

sd	Those were the last two that I've seen.	br	What was the second one?

sd^r	FLATLINERS.	sd	I didn't see that one.

b	Oh.	qr	Did you see those because of, Julia Roberts, or for, the subject matter of the two?

sd	So that's why I saw that one.	b	Uh huh

sd^e	I haven't gotten to see you know, any real recent ones.	sd@	Well, that one is, it's cute but kind of far out comedy. Yeah,

sd	I like comedies better than I do dramas.	sd	I, am not one for the,

qy	Did you care for SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY?	no	I'm not sure .

b	Uh huh.	sd	but on the other hand, I'm not sure I would have gone otherwise,

sd	well, I didn't care for the movie myself.	br	What?

sd^r	I didn't really care for the movie either.	b	Yeah,

qy	on likewise then, did you see PRETTY WOMAN?	ny	yes.

qy	Do you enjoy that one?	na	it was interesting,

b	Uh huh.	sd	well, I'm trying to think of the other one I saw recently, the one on, DEFENDING YOUR LIFE.

sd	I haven't even heard of that one.	sd	Well, that was one where,

sd	Like you said, you had to accept the beginning of it and just kind of go.	b	Yeah.

sv	it made you think a lot I think.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Did you see GHOST?	ny	Yes.

qy	now, did you care for that one?	na	I enjoyed that one.

sd	but it wasn't something that I would enjoy seeing twice or three times.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Meanwhile, I sat through the movie and said well, when are you supposed to start crying, you know .	b	Yeah.

sd	I didn't really, I didn't really find it to be a tearjerker .	sd	Well, whenever she starts crying .

sd@	I never pay to see one more than once. You know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	In fact, that's where I've seen most of my movies, have been on video.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You see it on video just as soon as it is on the movie screen.	sv	Well, with some of the movies, if you don't go to them within the first four weeks, the movie may have, left town, never to show up again until it comes back in video.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, unless a movie is popular and stays around, you probably will see it on video these days more likely than at the movie.

b	uh huh.	sv	well, I think just most people have V C R s now

sd@	It wasn't a comedy. No.	qy	Did you go to DANCES WITH WOLVES?

sd	I didn't get to.	sd	at least what I hear on that one, that it's coming out a second time in a longer version even though it was a long movie.

bh	really?	sd	It's sort of the uncut version.

qw	Well, what movies are showing down there now?	sd	I'd actually have to get a newspaper out.

qw	what was that one about Bob?	sd	it's kind of, WHERE'S BOB? or WHAT ABOUT BOB?

sv	I think it's just playing now up here.	b	Yeah.

sv	in the light of what has been happening lately with the doctors that I know and lawyers and whatnot, I think national health insurance is a way to throw a lot of money at a very small problem.	^g	Do you?

sv	Well, if you took half the money that they would spend in the state of Texas for health insurance and gave it to qualified students so they could become doctors, the problem would go away.	qy	You think the problem is not enough doctors?

na	I think the problem is that the doctors have conspired to limit the number of doctors, and that the lawyers have conspired to make sure that if you are a doctor, you are going to pay high premiums unemp , I mean, on your liability.	ba	Gosh,

qy	And you think there are plenty of doctors?	ny	yeah,

ba	It's astronomical.	sv	Now they can't doing anything about that.

sv	people don't sue	sv	People are very sue conscious.

sv	If you put a ten thousand dollar cap on the amount of money that a lawyer could make from a law suit against a doctor they wouldn't sue a one of them. You know.	b	Yeah.

qy	You know what tort theory is?	nn	No.

sd	Well, a tort is when you do something wrong.	b	Right.

sv	an O B G Y N doctor cannot control the fetus in the womb a hundred percent.	aa	That's right.

sv	if they have complications and,	aap	It depends.

sd@	And the people that are really doing their job are paying for everybody else. You know,	aa	Well, that's true,

sv	Just to prevent a a law suit.	sd	Because they have all these monitors now

b	Yeah.	sv	and so } it's costing more all around in health insurance for tests, for surgery, for longer hospital stay.

sd	See, I believe that there is a system already in place for health care.	sd	So, it's terrible.

sd	You show up at Parkland bleeding	^2	You'll get it.

sd@	and they'll fix you. You know.	aa	That's true.

b	Yeah.	sd	And we have that happen.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and at the last minute, they come to us.

sv	I think that if you just wrote the lawyers out of the equation the problem would pretty much evaporate.	b	Yeah.

sd	He's a divorce attorney.	sd	He better not be mine .

sd	But I also know an, O B G Y N who has stopped practicing.	b	Yeah,

sd	he just said,	sd	They stop their O B at least.

sd	I mean, he's not going to deliver any more babies ever.	b	Right,

sd	His malpractice was five hundred thousand dollars a year.	ba	That's incredible.

sd(^q)	And, you know, he said, he had to gross two million to take home as much as his malpractice.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah	sd	They are human.

sd@	This, This guy is Catholic. Yeah,	sd	Occasionally something will go wrong.

o@	I mean, you know, Yeah,	sv	Well, you can be human and Catholic.

sv	but, you're not likely to find somebody who is going to, you know, have a less conscientious effort.	b	Yeah,

sv	Insurance companies.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And I think one thing about pets is they're a lot of company.	b	Yeah,

sv	and they won't tell anybody.	aa	That's right,

sv	They just give it, and don't expect too much.	b	Yeah.

qy	Anyway, do you have a pet?	na	I had a cat,

b	Oh! .	sd	I'm going to get another one as soon as I get back in town.

sv	But that's good that you're going to get another one.	b	Yeah.

sd	But they just, really take care of them, or, are protective of them.	sd	I work and go to school

sd	and my kids,	sd	it's kind of fun.

sd	they'd take anything I think ,	b	Yeah.

qy^d	I guess your cat was an indoor cat.	nn	No

^2	It kind of traveled around	aa	well yeah,

sd	and, I think I liked that better.	b	Yeah,

aa	that's true.	sd	And dogs take a lot more care than cats do.

sd	I'm like I know it will be fun the first week maybe,	b	Yeah.

sd	and then mom gets to take care of it, or something.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	they want the fun part and not the work.

sv	I think it's really important to that if you get a pet that they're either spayed or neutered so that, you know, we're not just going on with this pet population and having to, just get rid of them.	b	Yeah.

h	but I don't know.	sv	Well if you're going to have a pet, and not have it neutered or spayed you need to be willing to, you know deal with the consequences, take care of the offspring

b^r	right.	sv	and I think, you know,

aa	I think that's really true.	sv	and it was a real positive thing,

b	Yeah.	^q	they're, they're, getting old now,

sv	and that's good too.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, I think that's all I have to say.	b	Okay,

fc	bye bye.	fc^m	Bye.

o	Okay.	qw	So, what's it been doing up there?

sd	It's real dry up here.	bh	really?

sd^e	We need rain really bad.	b	Oh.

sd	but they're going to need some you know, rain to get the second cut.	b	Oh.

sd	and if we don't have rain, she's going to lose a lot of money.	ba	my goodness.

b	Oh .	sd	We have had so much rain for May and June that we've got all the, weather people down here really confused.

qy^g	It's usually dry down there, isn't it?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we're still having April showers, for June.

sd	I hope they come, this way.	b	Yeah,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's been great because we haven't had to use our sprinkler system,

sd	Now see, everyone up here with their gardens they're not going to have much of a garden this year because it's so dry.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	We got enough.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

qy	is California getting rain then?	h	I'm not real sure.

^2	Out of the Gulf?	sd	and it's meeting what's coming out of the Gulf.

b	Oh.	sv	And it's just causing chaos

b	Yeah.	sd	so it's been, wet.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we've moved our yard I think three or four times in the last two or three weeks.

ba	my gosh.	sd	I mean just because it just keeps growing and growing and growing

b	Uh huh.	sv^r	You just couldn't get out there.

sd	we could use two days straight of rain.	b	Oh.

sd	It's really drying up here.	sd	Well, what always works for me is if I water my plants or we wash the car, it usually rains.

sd	and it's surely going to rain.	b	Yeah,

sv	Whenever you hang your clothes out on the line it always rains .	b	Yeah.

sd	We've had real hot weather.	qy	Hotter than usual?

sd	In March I was wearing shorts.	ba	Wow.

sd	I hope that,	sv@	I guess that means you're going to get a double long summer. Because you surely wouldn't get,

sd	I hope that doesn't mean we're going to get an early winter.	nn	No.

b	Yeah.	sv	That's a little early.

sd	You know it was nippy	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, like it was still in the seventies.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, high sixties low seventies in March.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it was hotter there than it was here.

b	Yes.	sd	It was just like a heat wave.

b	Uh huh.	sd@	And I was like, I want to go home . Because, we packed to cool off, you know, brought shorts and sweaters and everything

b	Yeah,	sd	and we just died.

ba	my gosh.	sd	It was really hot,

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

sd	and I just like it where it's deep enough, you know, but not too deep.	b	Right.

bh	Really?	sd	He said it was a pain.

qy	Well, isn't it weird at Christmas time without snow?	nn	No.

b	Oh.	sd	So it was weird because we had snow .

qy^g	You don't have the humidity either, do you?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but we're just about right.

b	Yeah.	sd	We're just having all this rain,

^2	muggy, huh?	nn	But no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's not, it's a dry heat

sv	See that's what's bad up here is when we do get the real, you know, hundred and the high nineties, we have the humidity to go with it,	b	Oh.

sd	your legs stick together just from walking you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	nn	But no,

ba	that's good.	sd	I was born in Texas

sd	Well, I guess that's really about all.	b	Yeah,

qrr	or, how do you work your budgeting?	sd	Well, for many, many years, my wife and I did have a budget.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we have a budget,

b	Yeah.	sd	So it's, it's helpful.

sd	and then we just spend about so much.	b	Sure,

sd	but I know that I go to the grocery store that we always stick within, you know, five dollars between here and there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	A certain amount.	sd	I think I do that automatically myself.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, I unconsciously, you know, stay with a certain amount because I have enough food already stored here that I don't have to make any large purchase at any one time.

b	Oh.	sd	All I normally do now is pick up little things here and there. If the salt goes out or we need sugar or something like that.

ba	that's great.	b	Yeah,

sv	you guys sound pretty self sufficient .	sd	Well, we keep a little note pad on a wall.

b	Huh.	sd	So it's worked very well that way.

b	Yeah.	sd	That way we keep up to date .

sd	but somehow we get back there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, this year we did it by train because it was the least expensive	sd	Well, actually, it's more interesting, too, if you've got the time.

sd	And, you know, we could go to both places without having to spend so much for plane fare.	b	Yeah.

sd@	And so, we find that if we're careful with our, you know, just everyday things like grocery shopping and gas and entertainment, things like that, then, somewhere out in the wash, it will come out that we have enough to get back there. You know.	b	Sure.

bd	that's all right.	sd	we are, going to be traveling to Europe with a choral.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we make a two weeks tour of, foreign countries

aa	that's right.	sd	and I think we just sort of unconsciously do it.

sd	but whenever I find, you know, a dime or something on the ground, I, I'll probably pick it up .	aa	I do the same thing.

sd	You know, just count it up at the end of the year, something.	b	Yeah.

b	But, yeah.	ad	Well, let's face it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I keep those levels up above a certain minimum,

qy	Do you have any strong opinions?	ny	Yeah,

qy	You do?	sv	I think, given, well given that there are so many people who don't have health insurance. It's probably a real smart thing, at least to have some basic coverage for everyone.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, you hear these horror stories of people, homeless people going to the hospital and, and being thrown out because they have no insurance, and having to go to someplace else.

b	Right.	sv(^q)	You know, it would be nice if, no matter where you are, or who you are, what happened, you know, what happened to you, you just go to the hospital and they say, Okay, just take him,

sv	and it is going to be about six times more expensive.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	In Canada, where everybody, everybody automatically has insurance in Canada.

sv	and you don't have the kind of choices that we have here,	b	Yeah.

sv	and I really don't want to give up having those choices.	aa	That's true.

sv	I mean, there is a night and day difference between good doctors and bad doctors, and good hospitals and bad hospitals.	aa	That's true,

sd	And in England, at least at the time when I was familiar with it, about ten years ago, they just told you what day you had to show up and where you had to show up and who your doctor was going to be.	qy	so didn't get any choices at all?

sd^e	I mean that.	ba	that's a problem.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

^g	isn't it?	ny	Yeah,

b^r	right.	sd	I mean I picked a primary care physician and just didn't like him, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I had to switch because I just thought he was a quack.

qy	Do you think?	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	so you wind up getting the people who really want to be doctors, being doctors,

^2	Really want to.	sv(^q)	but then again, you know, you don't get those people who would be good, and are real smart and decided, Hey, I want to make a lot of money,

b	Right.	^q	so I will go into medicine.

sv	and it's more of, seniority, I would imagine kind of thing, instead of having a skill or whatever to advance,	aa	Yeah.

h	I don't know.	b	Yeah,

sv	We really do.	sv(^q)	I mean, even something that says you know look, free major medical for all, you know, everyone

sv	And I, I think the problem with the skyrocketing cost right now is the insurance companies because, I don't see doctors getting real rich,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think hospitals do make money, but not nearly as much as insurance companies.	b	right.

sv	I think they are really making a killing and nobody is talking about it.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	insurance companies have to charge a substantial amount for certain people, or certain types of doctors, given that, you know, someone decides to have a malpractice suit against them, well, you know, it could be millions, I mean, unfortunately.

b	Right.	sd	I mean I'm sure there are those cases where the doctor is wrong or malicious or something.

b^r	right.	sv	But you know their, you know. Mistakes, you know.

b	Right.	sv	Everybody makes mistakes, unfortunately.

aa	Sure.	sv	It shouldn't be a billion dollar, you know, industry.

b	Yeah.	sv	and this is their compensation.

sv	I think that's the legal part of it coming into it to.	b	Yeah,

sv	I wonder if we should have a limit on how much people can sue for.	aa	That would be nice.

sd@	then if people weren't having to spend these huge amounts of money on getting insurance coverage. You know.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean I'm sort of in a government run medicine program.

^g	Are you?	sd	Well, well I'm a graduate student.

qw	At where?	sd@	At University of Rochester. In Rochester, New York.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I'll bet you are in Texas.

sd	I'm in Texas	sd	I was going to bet that,

b	Yeah.	sd	And because the university offers me two plans.

b	Oh.	sd@	and they offer the portion. Which is, which is, you know, sort of everything else you need. Sort of your, your basic care. Beyond major medical and stuff.

b	Okay.	sd	and even though my wife's insurance covers me, for everything, I still have to pay them a hundred and some odd dollars a semester.

ba	no.	sd	And that's for the mandatory portion of the insurance.

sv	that, that can't be legal.	b	Yeah,

ba	my gosh.	sd	but you know, it's just one of these things where I just don't want to spend my time.

qw	how can they make you pay for insurance coverage?	sd	their rational is they make everyone pay for it so that it keeps the cost of university health services down,

qw	how does it keep the cost down?	sd	Because everyone is now forced to pay for this.

qy	so they just use the money for something else besides your insurance policy?	nn	Well, no,

qy^d	So you're subsidizing the hospital.	na	Right

b	Uh huh.	sd	We can do that.

ba	good.	sd	but in effect, I'm paying twice for one service.

sd	but now I just in the last couple of years. I have gotten to the point where I am saying I just cannot afford to pay anymore, to help people out.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I need for the government or the agencies, to find a way to do it on the amount of money, you know, that I can afford.	b	Yeah.

sd	I just can't afford anymore.	b	Yeah.

sd@	Well, I guess, it has to do with a lot of the stuff that I find out I am paying for now. You know?	b	Yeah.

sd	Because our medical coverage has gotten increasingly worse over, let's see, the past five years, to the point now where even if we need surgery, our insurance only covers eighty percent of it.	b	Right,

sd	and so no matter what happens to me, if I get in a car accident this afternoon, I have you know, no way of being able to afford the outrageous medical costs, because my insurance is now only eighty percent of whatever it's going to be.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm subsidizing,	^2	Everybody else.

sd(^q)	And what if they are lucky enough to get into a doctor and a program that's going to say, Okay, well, you really need to have those varicose veins fixed, or your teeth fixed or something like that.	b	Right.

qw	How come their kids are getting that?	aa	Yeah.

sv	and they need that.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think the tendency is that as people get older, and gain, I don't want to say more responsibility, but you know, things like homes and kids, and so forth. They tend to lose that liberalism they had when they were younger.

h	It was something like that .	aa	That's probably very true.

sd	or maybe this is just my own personal.	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	qy^g	you guys I believe in Texas you don't have state tax, do you?

sd^e	no income tax.	b	Right,

b	Oh.	sd@	We have state tax on gasoline. you know, because our.

ba	Wow.	sd	So on top of the federal tax on gasoline, we have state tax on gasoline,

sd	but I tell you, we have incredible property taxes down here.	sv	that could be, making up for the difference.

qy	First off, do you have children that are in it?	na	I have children that are in the Plano Public School systems

sd	I now have grandchildren, in the school system	b	Oh.

sd	so, I don't have firsthand experience right now, with it.	b	Uh huh,

qo	So what do you think?	sv	Well, I think the public school systems are doing a good job.

b	Right.	sv	you figure out why you're adding it and what you're going to do with it once you've got it together.

aa	That's right .	sv	I don't care how intelligent you are if you be cannot make it function for you that intelligence is being wasted.

b	Right.	sd	And, this has been one of my pet peeves and probably why I went into education.

sd	and I know the fourth grader is doing stuff that our children were doing in the fifth and sixth grade.	b	yeah.

sd@	You know, it's amazing, to me and stuff that I didn't do until I was in junior high. which, of course, shows my age.	b	yeah.

qy	Is that scary?	sd	And it's like, I going to take this home and study it before I can help you.

b	Right.	sd	You know, so they're really moving them along

b	Yes.	sv	so I think that it's appropriate to teach them, you know, why they are learning this not just because the teacher says you have to learn this.

sd	I have a friend that's a teacher that one of her complaints is she can't teach because she's so busy filling out all the forms.	ny	Yes,

qy	do you find that?	sd	Well, filling out the forms and also all of these, statewide and national wide testing, things so that they compare

b	Uh huh.	sv	and . You know, as far as I'm concerned you can make a survey or test scores say anything you want it to say.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it's just a matter of how you're going to interpret it.

b	uh huh.	sd	You know, the whole first nine weeks of school is used as a review

b	uh huh.	sv	And I think that's totally useless.

b	Right .	sv	You know, and everybody's kids are the best kids that have ever hit this earth

sd	Well, I know that this friend, is in the Plano School District,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she teaches, emotionally disturbed children.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And she says she has, six graders in there that are reading on the level of the second grade.	b	Yes.

h	I didn't quite understand it.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	I don't know how long you've been here .	ny	Yeah

sd	And and they were really hearty and stayed on	b	really.

sd	and we've done really well with them.	qy	Did you plant those yourself?

ny	Yeah.	b	Oh.

sd	it's hard to go out when it's this hot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they're okay.	b	Oh.

o@	, Uh huh.	ba	That's nice.

o@	 Yeah.	sv	I think I know what they,

sd	they keep the rain on the outside, little rain drops	b	Oh.

h	I don't know.	br^m	Down here, the grass?

ny	Yeah	sd	we've had problems with our yard.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was just horrible.

sd	we have that too.	sd	But my husband got some new fertilizer and stuff, that seems to be helping

b	Uh huh.	sd	But we've got a Great Dane in the back

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she has eaten everything I have put out there.

ba	dear.	ba	I know,

nn	No.	sd	and I barricaded it up, so she couldn't get into it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I went and took a shower and looked back out there

bf	Had somehow gotten in.	sd	So I can't do anything back there. Because she destroys it.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I've tried out in the front

b	Uh huh.	sd	I had some shrubs I put out front

h	and so I don't know.	b	Yeah,

sd	So like I wanted to go out and kill them too.	ba	I know.

sd	it looks like our trees don't have any grass under them.	ba	I know.

sd	And we just can't grow, grass underneath there.	ba	I know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they're big

b	Yeah.	sd	but toward the end of the summer, you know, when everything starts dying off and whatnot and then the light can get through the tree, then the grass starts growing.

qy^g	It's a vicious cycle, isn't it?	ny	Yeah,

sd	It just really,	sd	So we've been trying to get something or to pull some grass underneath there and whatnot.

sd	but we've been thinking, you know, if we built up, you know, either a wooden like trench thing around where our bushes were and filled it like with a nice dirt then maybe we could plant some either flowers, or some new bushes in there that would live.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so I think that we're going to try that.	b	Huh.

sd@	and I'm trying to decide whether to put like bushes in front of them or not. You know, maybe just halfway up the window or something like that. So people can't see and hear too much .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	But only one is really like in the flower bed part

b	Yeah.	sd	So there's not really much I can do about that.

sd	So that's not too bad.	b	Yeah.

sd	They're pretty.	aa	I do too,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't have anything to look at

sv	But it's funny because, you try so hard I think sometimes to, anyway I do, to do our yard	b	Uh huh

sd	and then it's like the wind blows everything whether the weeds from your yard to your neighbors or yours to them	b	Yeah

sv	or and so even if you did get it under control, it seems like in just a few months it would all be back	b	Yeah.

^2	It's hard to get out a lot and do that yard work.	b	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sd	I hate to mow the yard, more than anything else.

sd	I'm glad I have an old enough son to do it for me now.	b	Yeah,

o@	so, Yeah.	sv	sure I'll be more then glad to pay him if he'd just go out there and do it . and do it to where I don't have to go back out and redo it.

aa	Exactly.	sd	that's my only thing with him.

aa	Exactly.	sd	That's why I'm having him help me now .

sd^t	I almost forgot what the topic was.	b	Okay.

sd^t	but I know what it is.	b	okay.

sv	I think it's a great idea	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've come from the teaching field.	aa	Right.

sv@	I, I'd be for it. You know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I, I would, I would probably go for going ahead and doing it, you know. If it's got to be done for everyone.	aa	Right.

b	Right.	sv	You know, when they answer the company, I think it'll make it a lot easier

b	Right.	sv@	and they'd run into less problems. Because,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know, I come from the teaching field too

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm more or less, if they told me I had to well then fine,

b	Yeah.	sd	if I had my druthers I'd probably say well no

sd	and you know, but I guess if they,	aa	Right.

sd	I guess there's some companies that are doing it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And it seems to be working out	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	And, anybody who, gee, is, you know, doesn't accept the rehab program then they're, more or less, getting laid off.

by	See, that's hard.	o@	I think that's really hard to because, you know, you never know. I don't know, it,

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, that's what's they're coming across as is some of the companies anyhow.

b	Yeah.	sv(^q)@	Where, like a lot of people are saying, well I only smoked a joint last night, I don't have any problems you know. Or something like that,

o@	this is just something I've heard that it kind of goes into like, just your off the counter medication that you could be taking for a cold. That it kind of affects that too.	aa	Right.

sd	I didn't know that.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	And a lot of times, those are the things I don't like to disclose to an employer because then they don't want to have anything to do with you .

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, it's very personal.

qh	And what's kind of next.	b	Uh huh.

br^m	The what?	sd^r	Orwell.

b	Huh.	o@	And, you know, his book. big brother is watching.

b	Oh.	sd@	You know, you're being controlled. That type of deal

b	Yeah.	o@	you know, I don't know. Seems awful strange .

aa	Right.	sd	But I can understand why they need it with all the, you know, train accidents and everything else.

na	I kind of think they will.	na	I think they will too because, you know, it's just going to follow.

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know. we haven't had any of it in our school system.

sv	and I just I just kind of think it's going to eventually head that way.	b	Right.

b	Right.	sv	And if they can test the teachers, that gives them the full right to test the kids.

b	Right.	sv	And then they, you know, caught everybody.

sd	well, some of the books I've read lately have to do with crafty type things where I've, learned things that I'm going to do for my children for Christmas	b	Uh huh.

qo	What about you?	^h	goodness,

b	Oh.	sd	lately, I've been, on the whole, very practical,

b	Oh.	sd	So I've been doing very little reading, except I did finally dip into a couple of biographies. all of sort of literary figures of this century.

sd	My husband and I had, took a book out of the library about gardening, too, and started a garden, a fall garden.	b	Oh.

sd	but, some of them we learned from a book	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now, I've read two books , that were, nonfiction lately	b	Yes.

sv	and that was not enjoyment .	aa	No.

sd	but, I didn't enjoy it necessarily	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was, about a Chinese lady and her generations down, what happened to her family through the years	b	Oh.

sd	So I like those a lot.	qw	what are your favorite children's books?

sd	A WRINKLE IN TIME is one	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I don't know if you've ever read that	nn	No.

sd	and I would like to read those	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, it's funny, because I've read some from like nineteen twenty three and nineteen forty five and things like that	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I don't know if it's just because they didn't come from my era or what,	ba	That's interesting,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I've read a great deal of old things.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I don't read the new ones,

sd	my children and I started a thing where I read a book with them before they went to bed at night.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the people that she came to were just farm people	b	Yes.

sd	and it was really a lot of fun.	b	Yes,

qy^t	you ready to discuss the topic?	qw^t	What's the topic?

sd^t	the topic is social changes and discuss social changes in America and how they relate, or how they differ today than they were ten, fifteen or thirty years ago.	b	Okay.

qy^t	You ready for that?	na	You bet.

b	Okay .	cc	I'll let you lead out.

br	Pardon me?	cc^r	I'll let you lead out.

sv	there's been an awful lot of social change lately,	sv	I think one of the things that's interesting to me is if you look particularly at the political changes is that they seem to be economically driven also.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So if you look at Russia and what's happened over there, I think the change in Communism was as a result of the economic problems that they were experiencing.

aa	True.	sv	I think the other kind of changes like job changes and those kinds of things, I mean, I think it's great to even have three or four different careers in your life.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think it must have been terribly boring to go through, your life doing just one thing for fifty years or forty years.

aa^r	yes.	sv	Some of that opportunity for job change in the fact that aspects changing.

aa^r	true.	sv	And the uncertainty of whether you're going to have a job is not as good,

qr	Well, do you think that's good or bad?	sv	I think it's great.

b^m	You think that's great.	aa	yeah.

sv	and I think that's an excellent opportunity for us to expand ourselves also.	sv	I think one of the problems with education as it relates to this, though, is that I don't know that education is prepared to help people make those changes.

sv	But I believe that, an individual should really learn how to learn	b	Yeah.

sd^r	that's good.	sv	There probably needs to be some training on how to, to adjust to these changes as they come about.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So it seems to me that while those changes are taking place, maybe we're not well preparing people to make the changes with them.

sd	I read a few articles off in the newspaper and some publications where stress, for those people that are laid off and also for those people that are not laid off but were threatened with a layoff and threatened with a reduction in their company is extremely high right now.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Okay, do you like to cook?	na	Well, I love to cook as a matter of fact I'm making dinner right now .

qw	what are you making?	sd	I'm making, some,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I had frozen it

b	Uh huh.	sd	with, with wheat kernel that,

qy	I mean are you single do you cook every night for yourself?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so this isn't for her,

b	Uh huh.	sd^r	stuff so,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she's having,

qy	well like if you were having a dinner party what, would you cook a variety of things, I mean, you know, vegetarian and nonvegetarian?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we'll make you know, some sort of pasta or something, you know, homemade pasta or lasagna or something.

sd	and that is what I'm having is pasta.	ba	good idea.

sd	Well for, for Christmas I got a, pasta machine,	qw	What,

sd	and all my friends are really anxious, you know, to have the homemade noodles	qr	Electric or,

sd^e	it's the hand kind, old fashion kind .	sv	Best, kind.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That's the best kind to have.

sd@	I like, you know, kind of still having in put that not everything's being done for me. You know.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and, then just something for desert, you know, bread and wine and cheese stuff like that.	ba	That would be great.

ny	Yeah.	sv	you know, so you know that it's a lot of fun actually.

sd	and I said heck it's kind of easy.	sv	It actually is, if, if you have a food processor,

b	Uh huh.	sd@	and with that it becomes really easy to make colorful pasta. By throwing in some spinach or some tomato or something and mixing it up

b^r	right.	o@	it's, a snap from there.

b	Uh huh.	o@	And then , I made,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I making yucky .

b	Uh huh.	sv	people think it's real hard,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Otherwise it's real ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's good stuff.

sd	and I live by myself,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it's not necessarily something that I would cook just for myself.	b	Right,

sd	and usually I'm pretty good about it.	ba	That's great.

sd	and my girlfriend and her husband loved it, in fact she passed it on to her parent	b@	 .

sv	and I was quite impressed with myself if I should say so.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	o@	and, it works real well.

sd	and, you know, I don't to the point of, you know, measuring down to the exact amount that they say.	sv	That means you're a real cook.

bd	is that what it means.	sd@	If you've ever watched the ones on television like, Jeff Schmidt, the super gourmet. he just, takes stuff he says, yeah about an ounce of this or something .

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's real good.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd@	or, we have people other that have never experienced it before and haven't had much middle eastern food. / * other = over

sd^e	I haven't.	sd	We make, cause we're my wife is Syrian.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, her families always have this food she grew up in,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so we make, four or five middle eastern dishes that are just all real simple.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We put them out for people

b	Uh huh.	sd	, that's, that's, that's a fun idea I mean if you ever, want something different to try.

b	Uh huh.	cc	I would try that.

sd	and I just haven't gotten around to it yet.	qy	do you have a wok though?

ny	Yeah,	b	Yeah.

sd	but I'd like to know more about, you know, more elaborate things like guess.	sv@	I think it's God's gift to cooking. Cause it's just quick,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's easy,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, and it doesn't taste like a million calories of oil

b	really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so wok food seems to be our thing.

b	Uh huh.	qo	So anything else you cook .

sd	I mean I'm always willing to try anything usually.	ba	Well, that's good,

sd	I've taken a cake decorating class	qy	the Wilson course?

sd^e	actually it was a private course, through like a com ,	sd	I like it .

sd	and then I guess just because I don't have the expertise to just hurry up and do it, like, you know, a professional would I go real slow	b	Right.

sd	and, you know, it's a little time consuming,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's really worth your effort once you see how you do.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	he's, got a degree in business management

 b	Uh huh.	ad	Can you hold on one second?

aa	Sure.	ft	Thank you.

bd	That's okay .	sd	Some one kept beeping in our calling waiting ,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd@	when my wife and I got married the night before we had a party. Or two nights before

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he made a real big cake himself,

b	Uh huh.	sd@	, so New Years our friend made a baby. Cake like a baby New York.

ba@	my. Uh huh.	ba	It was amazing

b	Uh huh.	o@	so. I get the mold I put it on, you know, the frosting always melts

sv	Well, you learn helpful hints in the classes at least.	b	Yeah,

sd	You know, the instructor told us certain things about well, don't follow what's really necessarily on the box, you know, if you're making just a cake from a box, you know, do this cause, you know, make it a variety.	bf	that you mean about the, mix itself.

sd	You know, some different hints. Yeah.	ba	Well, that helps.

sd	and, you know, all of the different, you know, decorating tips an things like that.	b	Yeah.

ny^r	yeah.	sd	those kill me

b	Well, yeah	sv	I think that's part of the problem,

fc	so that's about it.	fc	Yeah,

fc	Okay, well.	fc	it was a pleasure chatting with you.

fc^m	It was nice talking to you.	fc	Yes,

fc	Thank you.	fc	Bye bye.

o	Okay.	o	yeah.

sd	We're official now,	sd	it's very hot,

b	okay,	sd	so I can't do very much gardening other than balcony gardening you know,

b	yeah.	sd	I have the little flower boxes with, a lot of different flowers,

sd	and, the only recommendation I would have for someone who hasn't gardened is, one, get a couple of good books, of books, of course,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and usually they have talk shows.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Here in Dallas they have two great, talk shows that go through everything that will grow here, which is the opposite probably of what would grow up where you are	b	Uh huh.

sv	and so. in fact, you could easily do that now, turn on a talk show up there and see if there's got to be some gardening folks on the radio that says when to put your grass in, and what kind of grass to grow up in Virginia and everything,	o@	Well, the, Uh huh.

sv	for someone who doesn't garden, I'd say, that's my biggest recommendation is to,	b	Uh huh,

sd^e	I like it a lot, 	b	Uh huh.

qy	are you with T I up there	nn	No,

sd	and it is tough	b	Uh huh,

sd	the part I don't like, I guess, would be from December through February where you have to rake leaves forever it seems like,	b	Uh huh.

sv	so other than you know, those three months, when it's pure dog work the rest of it's very enjoyable just going through the experiences of putting little plants in or whatever	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, but I do listen to that talk show.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but there's some great, folks, that have been well trained, and, again, to, recommend gardening for this area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We grow bermuda and Saint Augustine here.	sd	I would have no idea .

sv	see, you would have to learn that, though,	sd	No idea whatsoever.

qy	or do you have to start all over every year?	ny	Yeah,

b	Right,	sd	well, except, I do have some, some day lilies that you know, I don't do anything with

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they seem to come back year after year,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but here we still do get some snow and ice and things like that.

sd	but we have to bring them in here in the Winter because usually, if it's not below the ground so you can insulate the roots from freezing you know, the pots will die,	b	Uh huh.

sd	everything in a pot will die	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, we do bring stuff in the garage and everything	b	Uh huh.

ad	whatever subject you pick, do it the knowledgeable way	b	Uh huh.

ad	don't go out there and start digging holes,	aa	Right,

ad	Get some books of whether it be Pennsylvania or Virginia as well as,	b	Uh huh.

sd	then there's always a gardening part of the newspaper or communications, as well as, I bet there's a talk show up there right now that if you turn the dial around you'll,	b	Uh huh,

sd	you'll find someone, probably in the morning, I don't know discussing, you know, what we do up in Virginia to get something growing	b	Uh huh.

sv	the soil's probably so good	b	Uh huh.

sv	our soil's not very good down here.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess in the ice age, it, it's pushed a lot of, limestone and everything, to some parts of Dallas you just can dig a foot down and you hit solid limestone, you know	ba	Wow, uh huh.

sd	it's so scrubby 	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think that we even got our famous hundred year old pecan trees from Alabama and all that, too	b	Uh huh.

sv	they're probably only in the South for pecan pie and all that,	b	Uh huh,

sd	it's what they call pecan pie up there in the East.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm from New Jersey originally.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I've worked on that with a little chewing gum, which I shouldn't do,	b	Uh huh

qw^t	or how many times have you been called?	sd^t	I've been called a lot,

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	and you know, I've called a couple of times,

nn	Well, no	b	Yeah.

sv^t	This is a great subject because they're out there gardening, you know,	b	Uh huh,

sd	It is beautiful here today,	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	You might have seen, if you've seen the news today about all the tornados here that were north of us.	nn	No,

sd	but it's here at work	b	Uh huh.

sd	in fact, I'm at work today, believe it or not.	b	uh huh.

sd	But, they have T V s in the break areas	b	Uh huh.

sv	You'll see that on the evening news.	ba	my, uh huh.

sd	I guess it's related somewhat to the weather, you know and the plants and all that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was north of us.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they'll they claim thirty odd people were killed up in Kansas City, Kansas,	cc^r	I'll have to make sure I catch that,

sd	but I'm sure you have plenty of trees.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that is a key thing for shade and keeping your bills down,	b	Uh huh.

qw	but where in Virginia are you all?	sd	right now, the District,

b	Uh huh.	sd	in Fairfax, Virginia.

qy	do you have the cherry blossoms in there or not?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	Right now I know the azaleas and everything are out are beautiful.

sd	although again, we have to prepare the soil.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's one thing I noticed there.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	b	yeah.

qy	Have you ever been down here?	nn	no,

sd	It is wide open, and flat	b	Uh huh.

sd	and a lot of them have done well	b	Uh huh.

sd	they do have some pine forest areas in wes , in east Texas where you have native pine trees,	b	Uh huh.

sd	there's a tremendous amount of pecan trees that we use you know, for eating	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think they thought that was going to be a great boom crop, hundred and fifty years ago, because they are all over the place in the South.	b	Uh huh.

qo	What else? speech, synthesis,	sd	well, I guess that I really don't know that much.

sd	can't say it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they have had Speak and Spell and all that for years	b	Right.

sd	but they've come out with some different ones this past week,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you're just going to have to talk to it you know,	b	Right,

sv	the classical thing for the handicapped, too, person who can't type very fast	b	Uh huh.

sd	like I can of course	b	Uh huh.

sd	not that I can type very fast either	b	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	sd	and she in fact is a data entry person,

qrr	or do you keep children for other people?	nn	No.

sd	that's exactly what I have.	bh	Really?

ny	Yes.	ba	That's wild.

sd	and my son was two in January.	ba	boy.

ba	That's pretty close.	ba^r	So that is pretty close .

b	Yeah.	sd	But I'm home with the kids all day

qy	Have you been able to do that all along	na	Pretty much,

ba	how neat.	sd	and that was another reason why I really wanted to be here because, you know, they have had a couple foster homes already.

qw	How old were they when you adopted?	sd	The baby was eleven weeks old

b	Oh.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I have always wanted to be able to stay home with my kids you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I wasn't necessarily a career person	b	Yeah.

sd	but as long as I was single and had to work, I was going to get a good job and do the best I could.	b	Yeah.

sd	and by the time we had kids I couldn't quit.	ba	boy.

sd	and course, we're hoping within, hopefully, the next two years I'll be able to quit and stay home.	b	Yeah.

sd	my best friend kept my kids from the time my daughter was born until she went to work last year in August	ba	that's neat.

sd	You know, the friendship is more important.	b	Yeah,

sd	and I I knew, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	I knew that they were taken care of	sv	That's the hardest thing I think, you know to deal with is that people love your, kids.

b	Yeah.	sd	I put, my oldest in a preschool program just for him to have the experience of two mornings a week of being with other kids and starting to learn some taking turns and, you know that kind of thing

b	Yeah.	sd	and, he was in there for three months when I pulled him out

qy	But she had no help?	br	Pardon?

qy^d	She was alone with them.	na	I didn't think much.

ba	that is hard.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And she just kept saying how wild he was.

aa	I don't either .	sv	I mean, it's kind of like there was so much going on that she felt like she needed to control more

b	Yeah.	sd	and it's really hard to con ,

^2	You have to let them have some wild time if that's considered wild .	aa	Yeah, you know.

b	Yeah.	sd	It was expensive.

b	Right.	sd	And I felt like that was a big factor for me.

b	Right.	sd	That they would would be safe you know, from any kind of abuse or that kind of thing.

sd	and we'd work it out.	b	Yeah.

sd	and that just did not work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they get dirty	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm talking sand in the ears and the eyes and the hair	ba	gosh.

sd	the kitchen table, I'd find peanut butter and jelly all over the table and the chairs	bf	You had to come home and clean before you could even do anything probably.

sd	She told me about five thirty one afternoon, it was a Friday, that she wasn't keeping kids anymore as of Monday morning.	ba	gosh.

qh	so what am I supposed to do .	b	Yeah.

sd	and we went to some of the Kindercares.	b	yeah.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	They had been going to it for years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But on Thursday I didn't like the Kindercares.	aa	I didn't either.

b^m	They didn't give him.	sd	And the other one was that the younger one got bit really badly by another child

b	Oh.	sd@	and what they did was they took my younger one out and put him in a crib and left him in a crib the rest of the day. Instead of taking the kid that was biting out and do something with him.

sd	And doing something with him.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, not only was it going to cost me like a hundred and fifty dollars more a month, which I didn't have you know. I, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, you know, because they're, you know, like public, they're not private you know. They can't pray,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I don't want them indoctrinated you know,	bf	So you feel like your values aren't getting,

sd(^q)	but I'd like them to be able to say, gee, God made the flowers, you know, and things like that.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, basic things like that.

^2	basic.	aa	Yeah.

sd	and it's a private academy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she has a three year old and a toddler, which mine was at the time.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	and she said if she leaves, she said, I'll let you have her spot.	ba	Wow.

^q	You can bring your kids Monday .	ba	what luck.

sd	I was just like, God set this, up for me.	b	Really .

sd	I have been at such peace with myself.	ba	that's great.

sd	and the cost was not near as much as the Kindercares were going to be.	b	Yeah

sd	I hope you can understand what I s , .	bd	That's okay .

sd	I was only about twenty dollars more a month than I was paying because being a private institution they're nonprofit.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, they don't have to charge as much.	ba	that's great.

sd	I told Russ that we should have done this a long time ago you know .	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't feel like I have to indoctrinate them by age three	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's kind of neat when they come home with it, you know.	b	Yeah.

o@	and, Yeah.	bf	They think it's fun.

sd	and they work at the potty train ,	b	Yeah.

sd	I just feel like a big burden was lifted .	b	Really.

aa	It is.	sd	I can't even go grocery shopping right now with the two of them because the baby is so into everything

ba@	I know. I know	sd	and the older brother is you know, running around all over the place

sd^m	and that's hard.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah	b	Yeah.

sd	I, I wish you could find a good Mother's Day Out because that would be good for your peace of mind also.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	so I think I'm going to look for that.

b	Yeah.	sd	and that's not that big a deal, you know.

b	Yeah.	sd	For a couple times .

sd	so that was a pretty good pretty good time, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	My baby sitter would take them and then pick them up.	b	Yeah

b	So, that worked out real good.	ba	That's sounds good.

fc	Well, I guess.	fc	Okay.

fc^t	It said child care criteria	fc	Okay.

fc	and I think we both listed an experience .	fc	Yeah.

fc	And you too.	fc	Bye bye .

qw	Well, Nancy, what do you think, some of the changes in roles of women are in American society in the past generation or two?	sd	Well, of course, working.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That's definitely got to be the biggest thing, is that everybody's out there working including me .

b	Uh huh.	qw	Well, what do you think it is?

aa	I agree.	b	Yeah.

sv	women stay single longer it seems like.	aa	Yes, they do.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

sd	I know my mother and her sister were both married by the time they were twenty	b	Right.

sd	and I waited until I was thirty two,	b	Uh huh,

ba	You know, I know that.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It used to be that our list ran nineteen, twenty, twenty one for our patients' ages.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and if we get somebody twenty one, we go, look how young.

b	Yeah.	aa	So, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, it's true.

b	Yeah.	sv	But again, I guess it probably does go back to the same thing of women having careers.

b	Uh huh.	sv	If they didn't have,

sv	Seems like there's.	sv	I guess it's a combination.

ad	go ahead.	ar	No,

sv	there're a lot of, either divorced or, you know, never been married,	b	Yeah.

qw	Well what do you think have been the most significant changes in the past generation or so?	sd	Well, just that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	we do it all .

b	Yeah.	sv	I really think that,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I really do.

b	Yeah.	sv	and they're contributing to the income besides.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think that we're really putting a lot of stress on ourselves.

sv	and it's affecting the families you know, for mothers not to be home, and yet, you know,	aa@	it is. Yeah.

sd	I mean, I don't blame anybody when they have to work because,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's a very wealthy town,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I really hate that you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I hate to see that,

b	Uh huh.	h	but, I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I used to just work occasionally for extra money,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's really hard

b	Yeah.	sd	and I don't know how a mother does just choose to go out to work, and leave the kids.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But to just go out there forty hours a week, at least and and work and leave your kids to get home from school alone, and that kind of thing, I think that's not very smart.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think that's difficult on them.

qy	You think it'll continue?	^h	Well, it's going to be interesting.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know how they're going to do it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so I don't know how it can change to where the mother can get back into the home again.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I don't know what effect it's going to have on these kids now when they grow up, how they're going to feel about it.

sv	Uh huh.	sv	you know, it could lead to another Woodstock type thing, you know, where where there's just too much material things,

b	Yeah.	sv	and maybe these kids will really resent that their parents are out there working for things

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they might want to do without things rather than do that to their families.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's hard to say.

sd	I guess I see that happening already.	b	Uh huh.

qr	Do you backpack or hike	na	Well, a little bit,

sd	That sounds interesting.	sd	we've had a lot of fun,

ba	man, I imagine.	sd	as far as the camping part of that, we just drag along all our tents and sleeping bags and, find a clearing in the woods and go for it.

bf	and then you go for days at a time.	aa	Well, yeah,

sv	God, that sounds like fun .	aa	Yeah

sd	I was, from California,	b	Okay.

sd	and so we would go up to the Sacramento, river sloughs, the delta there,	b	Okay.

sd@	if it got, you know over a hundred and ten degrees you went over the levee and jumped in the water. You know,	b	Right,

sd	but, when I got married, my husband had always backpacked.	b	Okay.

sd	I like being able to go back into the mountains, or, you know, where the trail didn't necessarily lead, and where you couldn't necessarily, pitch a tent .	ba	Boy, I bet,

sd	and so your canoeing kind of made me think of that.	b	Yeah,

ad	Don't let that stop you .	aa	Yeah,

ba	I know.	sd	But we're starting to get everybody back together.

qy^d	so you haven't done that before.	nn	No,

sd(^q)	She said it was truly incredible.	ba	I'll bet,

sv	there's that sense of it, you know, you're kind of scared, that risk of like gosh, what could happen and then the thrill of, you know, the excitement of doing it,	aa	Uh huh,

qy	Well, do you have anything planned for this summer?	ng	not really just yet.

bk	okay.	sd	and I've got a piece of property in Minnesota that is completely undeveloped as of yet.

ba	I imagine.	sd	So, we've got a private lake,

ba	that sounds good.	b	So, yeah,

sd	my oldest child is a girl, was born three years ago, three and a half.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I didn't want to go camping with diapers, you know.	ba	gosh,

sv	they'd be awake all night.	aa	That's right.

sd	but I think with him almost potty trained and, you know, she's not afraid of her shadow anymore, I'm hoping and crossing my fingers that we'll be able to go, this summer, you know, even if it's like over to Rio Dosa for a couple of days, or something to get them used to it and get them started, with little back packs of their own, and, you know, things like that.	b	Sure.

aa	Well that's true.	sd	You know, it's like, okay, this is, this is what, a pheasant looks like, you know,

sv	Ugh, I would need that before I could teach them .	b	Well, yeah,

na	I try to ride the stationary bicycle every day about five miles	b	Uh huh

qo	What about you?	sd	Well, I, exercise regularly.

ba	very good.	sd	but Washington is one of my favorite places to visit.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But Washington's a great place to do that.

sd	and he's done the whole canal, I think it's a hundred and eighty miles, with the scouts.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, it's at home, I can do some of my reading,	b	Right.

sd^e	I live in Maryland.	sv	Because I think there're so many parts of the District where it's not very safe to get out and walk.

sd@	so I'm able to, take advantage of the environment here. the neighborhood, also.	b	Uh huh.

qr	basically, is your motive simply, health or because you enjoy it?	no	Well, it's really both.

sd	I think pretty much you summed up my, my motivations also.	sd	And I often find that even when I don't feel that much like exercising,

ba^r	that's great.	sd	And that's really a terrific feeling, because you just go there at the end of the day, and you figure, God, I'm ready for bed and you exercise and then, it's sort of painful for a while,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but by the time you get done you feeling really terrific.

sd	I'm ready to work in the garden or whatever in the evening.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	I'm not.	qy	Philadelphia?

nn	No.	sd^t	I'm trying to because you have one funny vowel that's probably going to drive the T I people crazy.

b	really.	sd	Say out, instead of out you say out.

sd	But, I must say, that, when I did do a linguistics course in school, ages ago, the professor had a lot of trouble with my accent.	b	Huh.

sd	and at that point that was sort of the limit but since then I've been abroad a lot,	b	Huh.

o@	so. It's a mixture.	ba	I see.

sd	In Santa Barbara.	bk	okay,

sv	I think we've probably know each other's exercise habits	aa	Yes.

fc	and, it was nice talking to you.	fc	Well, same here.

fc	okay.	fc	Bye.

qy	Are we tonight?	ny	Yeah.

qw	What do you like to do in your spare time?	sd	Well, and when I have my spare time , I do enjoy,

sv	Actually, it's a cherished commodity now days,	aa	That's right.

ba	great.	sd	And I've been doing a a picture for my father in law,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And some other things I like to do are, music and, also reading.

qw	What kind of music?	sd	Well I enjoy singing.

bk	okay.	b	Yeah.

sd	I enjoy that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the biggest hobbies I have right now are my kids and whatever they are involved in.	b	Yes.

sd	and so a lot of the hobbies that I have right now are centered around my children and also things that my wife and I like to do together.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so personally a lot of the hobbies I had when I was growing up and, going to college and so forth are having to change.	b	Uh huh.

sd	there's not a whole lot of mountains here in Texas that I can go skiing with that right now,	aa	That's right.

sd	but hopefully I will be able to get back to the slopes some day	b	yeah.

qy	You didn't?	nn	No,

aa	That's true.	sd	And then of course, once I got to the age where I could have done it myself, I had other interests I guess.

sd	My two oldest brothers were very interested in skiing.	b	yeah.

sd	and we would go skiing and enjoy that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I am finding out, a lot of the spare time that I had isn't there.	aa	That's right.

sd	it's, taken up by activities with, work, with family, with, civic and Church responsibilities for me.	b	Uh huh.

b^r	yeah	b	Yeah.

ba	Well, great.	sd	We will be busy with that again.

qy	So you have participated with that in the past?	br	Pardon me?

qy^r	Have you participated in that in the past?	na	Well, I did with my older daughter

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she was in it for a few years,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she is in band.

sv	It sounds like her life is full too.	aa	Yeah.

sv	I imagine your life is full taking them around all over the place. mention tonight	aa	Very much.

fc	or,	fc	No,

fc	Great.	fc	Thank you for calling.

fc	and you have a nice evening.	fc	You too.

sd	and I sew	b	Uh huh.

sd	I sew clothes for them every once in a while.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I make quilts.	ba	wow,

sd	I have to put it away	sv	It gets boring.

sd	and then I have to bring it back.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't know if it's looking at the little things every time.	sv	Well, it reaches a point where it doesn't seem to be very challenging, I think.

aa	that might be it.	sd	But I do a lot of it in the car.

bh	do you?	ny	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	so I have nearly an hour both ways that I can really get a lot of work done

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know that I could even think about quilting.

sd	I can do it with a needle and thread you know, and get about five small stitches in, which is pretty good,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it's very long.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's very tedious if you don't have a whole group, you're not finishing a quilt in a long time .	ba	I bet.

sd	So, I like to just mostly do the tie quilts.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That's so much easier.	aa	Yes.

sd	instead of, like, yarn they tied, ribbon into it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it's real pretty.	ba	I bet.

sd^r	It's real pretty.	sd	There's so many things I wish I had learned to do with my mother.

ba	wow.	qh	And when I look at it now, she's been dead for a long time I think why didn't I learn these crafts and skills from her because she could crochet and do so many of the old things that aren't in vogue right now that people just don't know how to do.

qy	Now did you say you could knit?	nn	No.

b	Oh.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, I was going to say because, Because if you could knit, you could crochet.	sd	I want to learn to crochet.

sv	It's just like doing one handed as long as you learn how to weave the yarn in between your fingers on your left hand.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And then you just use your right hand with the hook.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You could learn that, I'm sure and pick that up.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think if you can do any handicraft, you can learn to crochet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's not too difficult.	sd	It's funny, when you were talking about sewing, I love to do anything by hand with a needle.

b	Yeah	sd	But I'm totally intimidated if I sit down at a sewing machine.

qh	Isn't that interesting.	sd	But I just have a phobia about not being able to actually sew.

sv	I think that's really interesting.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and there are some beautiful, just gorgeous patterns that people do.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And a lot of people don't do that either.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, and I always think, well, I can do this and watch T V or something you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then it doesn't quite work	sd	I'm at the age where bifocals or trifocals would be necessary.

sd	I can sketch something, like if I see a picture, like, out of a book, I can sketch that	b	Ooh.

sd	, I can't draw it out of my own head kind of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and yet I can't do, you know, like, craft, on wood.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can't do that painting thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	I know a woman who's just wonderful at that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess that's the only way I could do it.	sd	Well, sometimes, even with that. I think you have to have some,

qw	so, what are your favorite T V shows?	sd	One that I can't find anymore which is GABRIEL'S FIRE.

qy	do you like that?	ny	Yes.

qw	When was that on?	sd	It was usually on, Thursday nights.

qy	On A B C?	h	I don't know .

sv	well, it may be that, it was recently replaced, by actually by what may be my favorite T V show TWIN PEAKS.	sd	It was same time period,

h	So, I don't know.	qy	You don't know what happened to GABRIEL'S FIRE then?

sd	I don't think that was on A B C, anyway I don't know what happened to it though.	sd	I don't remember from one station to another.

sv	And there's a lot of those Blair shows floating around.	qy	is he the reformed, gambler?

ny	Yeah.	aa	Yes,

qy	Do you like the law shows	ng	I really don't watch that much T V,

sv	also saves a lot of time with commercials.	aa	you're not kidding.

sd	I guess it's on late Saturday nights or something,	bc	Midnight.

sd	that's entering the day as well.	bc^r	Midnight.

qy	have, have you seen this often?	na	I tape it.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd^r	I tape it.

sd@	I don't know that. / * don't = didn't	sd	And, I'm like, I don't believe this.

sv	I don't see any difference though,	aa	I don't either.

sd	I live in, , Rochester, New York,	qy	You're in New York?

ny	Yes.	b	Oh.

qw	Where are you?	sd	I'm in Dallas, Texas.

sd	I think the AMERICAN GLADIATORS is on Sunday afternoons actually around here as well, sometimes.	bh	really?

o@	I know I've seen it during the day in Florida. When I was at my parents down there.	b	Oh.

sv	I think it's something completely new.	aa	I think it's great.

o@	Well, Yeah,	sv	it's a great role model for everybody.

sv	and I think that people sort of learn good sportsmanship and so forth.	aa	yes,

sd	they, leaned away from that sort of,	sd	They hold competitions in Los Angeles in, Florida and Minneapolis, Minnea ,

qy^d	that's how they do it.	na	and that's it.

bh	Really?	sd	There is a woman that, made,

sv	I just thought they had some,	bf	Strictly your skill.

ba	that's great.	b	Huh uh.

qy^g	they win money I think, don't they?	sd	I think the last I heard was it's up to about a hundred fifty thousand dollars.

bh	Really?	ny	Uh huh.

qy^d	All that for getting tennis balls shot at you at a hundred miles an hour.	ny	Yeah,

sv	I actually feel the tennis balls would hurt.	sd	well, they, they come out with a lot of bruises too.

qy	there anything else?	b	Hey,

br	Huh?	sd	see I tape MURDER SHE WROTE.

b	Okay.	sd	I like mysteries.

b	okay.	sd^r	I like mysteries.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I don't have to concentrate too hard on them.

sv	But, I'm sure that's fun.	sd	most of the lawyer programs like, LAW AND ORDER, they're not on the times that I've watched because I haven't had T V GUIDE around here in ages.

sd	well, they seem to be on later,	b	Yeah.

sd	I tend to, if nothing else is in the town television at eleven o'clock just to watch the news, and or NIGHTLINE or something, just sort of get you know, a good, a good think for the day.	qy	Your news is on at eleven?

qw	When is yours on?	sd	Ten,

fa	well, I'm sorry I interrupted,	bd	that's okay.

sd	ours is on,	bd	No problem.

qy	so, does your prime time start at seven o'clock?	nn	No,

nn^r	no,	sd	and they have one at ten.

qr	so, like, you know, the regular television shows that are very popular, do they start at, seven or at eight?	h	I'm trying to think.

sd	because that would the eight o'clock here.	sd	that's MAJOR DAD at eight I think it is.

sv@	but then at eight o'clock is when everything starts. which is strange, I mean, because yours start at seven and end to ten	b	Huh.

sd	and ours start at, at, at eight and end at eleven,	b	Yeah,

ba	that's great.	qy	But, do you ever watch CHEERS?

qy	Do you watch CHEERS	ny	yeah,

o	Okay.	qw	So, what is your opinion on drug testing?

sd	that's about it.	b	Well, yeah,

ny^r	uh huh.	sv	if, if the company is liable for something that, that, a employee does while under the influence of a drug, you know, then by all means they should have the right to, to, to to minimize their liability.

sv	And I think that's what companies are doing, more and more because there are products that are out there.	sd	And there's also the case about just, health and welfare of the, employees.

b	Uh huh.	sv	If a company has a healthy work force, their insurance rates are low.

b^r	sure.	sd	And not only low, there's all sorts of a financial benefits associated with you know, having people file fewer claims, being sick.

sd	The only thing is,	sd	the whole question that a, that a work force that is known not to be on drugs is going to be more healthy

sv	the one issue that I would take stands with is the fact that the drug testing itself can be done on a person that is actually not on drugs and come out positive.	b	Right.

sv	and the Advil will, apparently, come out positive as if they smoked marijuana.	b	Right.

qw	you know how can how you can do it?	b	Right.

aa	Exactly.	sv	that's where the real sticking point comes in.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't think there's any problem with testing people.

b	Sure.	qw	It's what do you do with the information?

qw	Where there might be in the back of the mind of the employer that this person, is on drugs	b	Right.

qy	you know what I'm saying?	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	the employee should not be privy to the information of drug testing.

ad	So, tell me about changes from say twenty years ago, since you were an adult, twenty years ago.	sd	Well, let's see, well, we assume I was an adult twenty years ago, .

sd	Well, you're able to, you're able to, vote and go to war and things like that	arp	Yeah,

sd	that's one of the changes .	sd^r	Not vote.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we had all the great civil rights legislation of nineteen sixty eight,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, around here on the, east coast, we were heavy into affirmative action.

b	Yes.	sd@	And, that was a great shock for a lot of people. And, uh, a great disappointment for some people like myself.

b^r	uh huh.	sd@	I was gainfully employed by Safeway Stores Incorporated. And, trying desperately to, get ahead with the company.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the problem was that my hair was too long.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you weren't allowed to have a, mustache or a beard,

b	Uh huh.	o@	and, if you wanted to get ahead with the company,

b	Uh huh.	sv	well if you were a, black female you were destined to be store manager in six to nine months,

b	Huh.	sd	And that's basically where I ended up.

qy	Did it work?	na	I think so,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think they're like all companies, well represented.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, you know, everything seems to be fine.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've kind of lost touch with the company,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	but, as far as their management goes, I'm not sure they're any better off than they were before management wise.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, other changes, just people seem to be more outspoken now individually, rather than collectively.

b	Uh huh.	sd	back in the seventies we had, a lot of, protests against the war, and, bring our troops home

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, I've noticed, that now, more and more individual people are speaking out for their own rights rather than massing together.

sv@	So less, you think now there's less of a social movement and lots of individual movements. In a sense.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, everybody was into me,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	and, people's response to that, you know, at first not trusting and now, expecting more.

b^r	uh huh.	qw^d	And what about the last ten years that you've been aware.

sv	instead there's been sort of an increasing, I don't know, Japan bashing and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I see among some of my friends and even more among some of my students, who are, you know, maybe twenty, a real sense of, you know, America's losing it.	aa	Yes.

sv	and there's a notion of fairness.	aa	Yes.

sv	while still far from perfect, is much more established, I think.	sv	But even, I think, along the line of the, goals of civil rights, there always seems to be some prejudice to someone by anyone.

sv	It's human nature	sv(^q)	You know, don't like the way you look, don't like the way you dress, don't like your hair, don't like, you know it's just something that always sets people off.

b^r	yeah	sv	And the problem is that ideally you know, the world would like you to be completely indifferent.

b@	Yes . Uh huh.	sv@	and you keep that image your whole life . No matter what you do.

b^r	yeah.	sd	I've seen a lot of changes, I mean, from the original earth day

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I'm heavily involved in, you know, my own personal recycling.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and, you know, I do the newspaper and cardboard and paper and, you know, all that stuff at home

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and I'm starting to see more and more recycling centers, cropping up all over the place here, on the, east coast,

sd	And that's a real change, except it sort of, brings back to the nineteen forties more than anything else .	b	Yeah,

sv	I mean, all this recycling used to be in tact, * typo in tact should be 'intact' or not all of it,	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, recycling was a wartime thing.	sd	And then they turned around and called them junkyards, and, started making profits off, them after the war.

aa	Yes .	sd	And now we got to the point where the junkyards, you've got to pay them to take something there,

b	Uh huh.	sv	so, things have really changed a lot.

aap	A perceived decline anyway, yeah.	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	qy	And this person's teaching my children?

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, I had a real problem with that.

sv(^q)	this is the way of let's make fun of the teachers those are the people who can't do anything.	b	Yeah.

sv	And if you have that kind of social attitude it's hard to get sufficient numbers of people who are going to overlook all of that work for lower pay, work for low social prestige, just because they care about good education.	b	Yeah.

sv	And you get more and more people and up there because it's the safety net of those of, you know, average intelligence or something, they can always teach.	qy^d	I'm not sure if your familiar with the movement they have here in Maryland,

sv	and, I'd really like to see stability in that area, because I'm always afraid that's where another big war is going to start. Not that Desert Storm was a small one.	aa	Yeah

sd	actually I heard that the Israelis at least mentioned about giving up some of the Golan Heights.	b	Really.

ny	Yeah.	sd	That would be interesting because actually, I'm, I'm I'm Jewish

b	Okay.	sd	But I have a lot of friends, you know, who are sort of adamant, you know, Israel,

sv	Well, I guess it's one of those things that, if it's going to really promote a lasting peace, if there is not going to be a peace,	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, the only way to think about it is Well, they won, you know,

b	Yeah	sd	So, I don't know how to, I don't know what to do about it .

qy	Do you think the U S is going to wind up keeping, military bases over there?	na	probably,

ng	but, I haven't specifically heard anything about that.	sd	I just heard something recently, about moving,

sv	What I thought was interesting is that, apparently the formal cease fire has not actually been signed yet.	aa	That's true.

sv	And, then I guess there's still the possibility that, hostilities with, U S troops could still break out.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	But I think that's actually the scariest part, because what's happening in Iraq right now, you know, in itself, it being so crazy there.

qy	Do you have relatives over in Israel?	nn	No,

b	really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	she has sort of friends and family in Saudi Arabia, who are some friends in Saudi Arabia.

qy	does she ever want to go back to Syria?	sv^e	I think it's, for her not really relevant, because she is second generation American, actually.

bk	okay.	sd	Her parents who were born here would like to go see it, though, I think.

nn^r	No .	sd	You know, something about the place makes it not quite enjoyable.

qy	Do you ever want to go over to Israel?	ny	Yeah,

bk	okay.	sd	I was there a couple of years ago, when it wasn't, you know, sort of dangerous to be out there, I guess.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I d , do like it actually.

b	Yeah.	sd@	But I do like the food. so, if that, if that amounts for anything.

qy	do you have a lot of Kosher foods there at your house?	b	Yeah,

ny	Yeah	sd	Turns out, you don't, you don't really find bagels in Israel.

sd^e	Kish ki's, or knishes .	b^m	knishes,

b	Oh.	sd	it's very different.

ba	I got you.	ba	it, it is very strange.

^g	right.	na	that starts tomorrow night.

sd	and I used to have to go with pocketful of change to buy all this bread the kids would see me .	^2	Bought up all the bread from .

bd	not, Not,	sv	Got the vocabulary down and everything.

bd	just, just enough to get by .	sv	that, that makes you real good.

b	Okay.	sd	But I sort of, you know, do a lot of these things,

b	Oh.	sd	two years ago we had a Seder,

ba	Wow .	sd	And I was the only Jew both nights.

b	really .	sv	which to me is wonderful, because it means that people who never would get to see this, get to see it.

sd	matter of fact I just watched Charles Heston this weekend in the TEN COMMANDMENTS.	b	Yeah,

qy	Did you?	ny	Yeah,

sv	But, you know, emotionally I have a real difficult time believing that, that people that believe in God and love, not war and to forgive can't get together.	b	Right.

sd	But I mean, even within the Muslim, religions, different sects, they can't get together.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, I mean, and that seems really weird.

bf	Or, you know, the Catholics and the Protestants up in Ireland.	aa	Right,

qy	You know, I mean,	sv	same thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'll never understand it.

b^r	yeah.	sd	Didn't hurt me, at, at the moment.

b	Yeah.	sd	and it talks about how, you know, if we could just all get toge , you know,

sv	it sounds like a John Lennon, type.	b	Yeah

o	Okay.	qy^g	Well, are you a fisher person, are you?

sd^e	I love to fish.	ba	Great.

sd	Well, it's mostly from the rivers and lakes.	qy	In California?

sd	I don't like to go out on boats.	b	Oh.

sd@	down here we usually catch catfish and bass, stripped bass, you know, where I fish. And trout up at, Lake Shasta when I go up there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think I had rather have a catfish than I would a trout .	sd	Well, I don't blame you.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, now that we are down here, I think a lot of people do some, bass fishing and strip bass fishing

qy	See. Well, like in, Iowa and Nebraska, those little bullheads, they look just like catfish,	ny	Yep.

sd	You know that's what I mean cause I am from Iowa.	b	Oh.

sd	they look just like baby catfish.	b	Yeah.

qy	You know, did you get to go fishing very often?	ny	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I, really I haven't gone fishing for about two years now

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's driving me crazy

qy	Well, you like to eat them after you catch them?	ny	Well, yeah,

sv@	but they don't like to eat them. You know.	b	Yeah.

sd@	If I go to a restaurant and order fish, it's usually either salmon or, red snapper. You know .	b	Yeah.

sd	We, skin them.	^g	Do you?

ny	Yeah.	bk	Okay.

sd	and then I just, flour them, salt and pepper them and cook them.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't put that corn meal on them.	nn	No.

sd	You know, that's the way my mother taught me to fry them	sd	Well, that's how we do it too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then the skin just basically scrapes right off

sd	most of them are just the small, you know, pan frying ones.	b	Yeah.

qy	Wouldn't that be something?	ny	Yeah.

qy^g@	It's a thrill when you get a big fish though, isn't it? You know.	ny	Yeah.

^g	Nebraska?	ny	Uh huh.

qy^d	So, it was just like the rivers and, the lakes I suppose,	qy	In, In Nebraska?

ny	Yeah.	ny	yeah.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And a lot of them ended up being close to the river,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so we would do a lot of fishing there too

qw	So, Jan, how do they recycle in Texas?	sd	the biggest, way it's going right now, lot, } most of the grocery stores have got, things set up where you can bring in your, plastic, and your cans, and newspapers.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then they've just got different barrels setting out

b	Yeah.	sd	they've got them set outside

qy	Is it, is it all voluntary?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, they just want to, help recycle. Which is, what we do. You know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	probably the only thing, sometimes we'll take or the cans in

sd	There's, a lot of projects where the Boy Scouts and things, that will, collect your cans	b	Right.

o@	and, it's a good fund raiser for the kids.	b	Right.

sd	you see, I guess it depends on your landfill space.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and my parents are forced recycling,	bh	 really?

sd@	they ha , all plastic has to go into a recycling bin, all cans have to be recycled, all newspapers has to be recycled. Because they're just running out of space and landfills.	ba	wow.

sv	they're using their landfills up faster than they can get new ones.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we dump them off there.	qy^d	So, it's vol ,

sd^e	It's still voluntary, though I think we're supposed to have something implemented by nineteen ninety three, though where some aspects will be mandatory.	sd	you say it is all voluntary.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Is it all,

sd	Mostly just the cans.	bk	Okay.

sv	and most of the time, like I said, that's a sort of like fund raiser things that, the schools do, or that the Boy Scouts do, or whatever.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	aa	Yeah.

sv	Cans are the only thing I think you really get money for.	ar	Well, they do have places around here where you can get money for your newspapers, and stuff like that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, you know, I think a lot of people, like I said, are more concerned,

b	Uh huh.	 +	with, you know, right now, you know, the aspects of saving the earth .

b	Yeah,	o@	 Uh huh.

sv	It was, it's one of those things,	b	Right.

sd	you know, and just going and taking the time to go and read the signs and the brochures on what they accept and how it should be, separated, you know.	b	Uh huh.

nn	Huh uh.	bk	Okay.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean it's tremendous how much money they have saved and even saving all these trees

b	Right.	sd	I can't believe that you know. Because they've got it all posted all over the place how much, they're saving and how w ,

sd	I, I work in a, speech interface lab, at a, at a college.	b	okay.

sd	The state of Maryland has asked all the colleges and universities, and some of the large organizations, you know, if they would definitely recycle their office paper.	b	Uh huh.

o@	And, the same thing, you know, almost every college in Maryland is recycling office paper.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's surprising how much you never realize, because that janitor comes around and empties your garbage, can every night.	b	Yeah.

o@	and, you just can't believe how much paper that you,	b	Right.

sv	Reams of paper come, out of an office every day . That , took us to recycle.	b@	Yep . Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, you know, cost wise and and, you know, saving trees and stuff like that.

b	Right.	sd	I mean, it's just amazing, you know, the difference.

qy	you know, I guess a lot of the large organizations, probably T I, did they advertise on television how successful they are?	nn	N ,

b	Yeah.	sv	but that doesn't mean that they don't.

b	Yeah.	sd	but, I haven't really seen anything advertise publicly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then, like I said, they do a lot of internal, advertising on that kind of stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I haven't seen anything.

b	Yeah.	sd	But see, I don't see a lot of T I advertisements on T V anyway.

aa	That would probably, be true.	sd^r	You know. So, So, I don't see a lot of advertisements for T I.

sd	They'll, say,	b	Right.

^q	And here, those of us that Dumavra Power, which is our power company, that,	b	Uh huh.

^q	we now recycle forty five percent of our solid waste,	b	Right .

sv	so I think, you know, we're probably reaching a successful stage and just with voluntary, I think.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And, I know my kids, like if they see litter on the ground they pick it up and say, look at that. Somebody is not saving the earth, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	So, I mean, the kids, I mean, they really try to educate all ages, you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, it's like nobody was concerned about it.

sv	We weren't, concerned.	sd	You know, and it's like,

aa	That's true.	sd(^q)	You know, it's like all of a sudden when there's noticeable things, saying, Hey, you know, we're ruining the earth,

b	Huh.	sv	you know. And now everybody is doing something about, which is good.

b	Uh huh.	qw	But how come we weren't doing this, say, twenty years ago , you know?

sv	I think really probably what hit peoples, you know, I know that here up in the, the New Englands area and also in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and New York, all of a sudden we're out of landfill.	b	Uh huh.

o@	And, even then, you know, we're really running out of space.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that all of a sudden really hit home that there's no longer landfill space, in some of the more crowded states.	o@	Well, Yeah.

sv(^q)	They're not going to voluntarily say, Hey, ship your garbage here.	b	Right .

o@	So, you know, realistically, you know, we really had to start, we have to start recycling in some, geographic areas.	aa	Yeah.

sd	It's really, tough.	sv	I think, that it really surprises me because of the cost savings.

b	Uh huh.	qh	I can't understand why nobody saw that before.

b	Uh huh.	sd	{E I, mean, } it's, so cost, you know,

sv	Well, in some ways, I guess, it doesn't become really cost saving until you have an industry around it, you know. Because, I know that, like in, Pennsylvania, they require them to, put their newspaper for recycling.	o@	Bro , . yeah.

sd	But, the de inking process that they use, to take the ink out of the newspaper so it can be reused is very expensive,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and also, it produces a waste, a, liquid waste that they don't know what to do with yet.	b	Oh. I see,

o@	So, even some aspects of recycling they still have cost, yeah, cost efficient, yet.	b	okay.

sd	So, but others, you know, like tin cans and plastics, are really, efficient, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They, they melt on quickly you know, just because of the, heating and things, getting glass.	b	Right.

sv	it really is surprising that people haven't noticed it before.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I noticed that a lot of gas stations are telling you to recycle your oil.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I mean, that kind of surprises me .

b	Yeah.	sd	but they can.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know how cost efficient that would be, I guess,

sd	I know that though, all those petroleum products though are so terrible for the water table.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	, I was reading some place the you put, brake fluid normally comes in just small little pint containers. That one pint of brake fluid can contaminate so many gallons of water, you know, like hundreds of gallons of water.	b	Uh huh.

qh@	and you wonder, you know, with all these oil spills. how terrible that is .	b	Yeah

sv	So, we'll have to keep our eyes on all that, I guess.	b	Really.

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know,

aa	I, agree.	qy	You know,

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know,

aa	I do, too.	sd(^q)	because like we were asking some people that live in, North Dakota, Well, you know, are you recycling.

b	Uh huh.	h	You know, so, I mean I don't know,

o@	It d , , Well, you know, if they're forced to do it it becomes sort of a habit.	h	I mean, I don't know,

qw	What do you think about gun control?	sd	Well, sort of mixed feelings about it, I guess,

sv	Well, I guess that I would like to say that perhaps someplace in the middle where people could somehow qualify or, have a legitimate use for the, the weapon I suppose because also, living in this area, the problems in D C come home very quickly.	b	Uh huh.

sv@	You know, at least there's the moral issue that they knew better. Which is sort of, you know, flaky,	o@	 Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, a lot of the crime, I think, that goes on, I don't know to what the degree the guns are purchased through regular channels or they're illegal guns.

sv	Now, in a sense, that's a legal way of getting the guns,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but certainly the the purpose is not very legal.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, you know, I think stuff like that is perfectly good.

b	Right.	h	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but on the other hand, you know, like I say, I kind of against government control in general.

sv	And I suppose you know, total ban would lead to more illegal weapons.	b	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	b	Right,

b	Right.	h	I don't know,

sd	We never had any in the house	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, to me, you know, the first time I saw a gun up close was a pretty scary thing.	o@	 Yeah,

b	And I'm not sure that's good either.	sd	well you know, we, I grew up with them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, it was a whole different thing

b	Uh huh.	sv	I'm not certain that people are, are terribly concerned about other people.

sd	Well, before I was married, I used to play a lot of sports.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I haven't done a lot of, exercise on purpose.	b	Uh huh.

qo	What about you?	^h	Well, it's funny,

bh	really?	sd	This weekend I cleaned out my closets

b	Uh huh.	sd	Tried it on and decided I really did not like how it looked on me.

sv^e	that can be awful.	sd	So yesterday I went to, a spa.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we set up a program for me to work on,

ba@	that's good. Uh huh.	sd	So I've been two nights in a row

qrr	like, is it the weight machines or aerobics or what is it?	sd	Last night I did about thirty minutes of riding a bike and like, three different types of, weight lifting for my legs and, and my hips

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I did a hour of aerobics.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that was really tough .

ba	I bet.	sd	And I was sore this morning when I got up,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's only thirty minutes

b	Uh huh.	sd	thirty minutes was definitely plenty.

qy^d	Doesn't sound like low impact.	nn	No,

qy	So are you moti ,	qy	Have you started exercising at home

sd	but I like to, play tennis and play racquetball	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, I would really like to start that again, because I am now, you know, not in a position that I like myself.	b	Uh huh.

sv	you're easily tired	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I'm not the kind of person that could go to a spa and work out,	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean I have so many chores and so many obligations every day for, to add another obligation would make me feel stressed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But if I have something, some team sport or some activity, then it's kind of like having fun, playing	b	Yeah.

sv	but you're doing it for fun.	b	Uh huh.

o@	and, Uh huh.	sd	I have a girlfriend that goes for the social aspect of it

b	Uh huh.	sd	so my husband goes a lot

ba	Well, that's nice.	b	But, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I'd like to try that as well.

sd	and it's fun.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	And also, the nice thing about belonging to a club is that you can have some of the relaxation, you know, like saunas, or you know, hot Jacuzzis or whatever, they have that kind of makes it fun and stuff, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	you can relax that way, afterwards and things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I guess it's getting late.	b	Yeah.

sd	that helped motivate me .	b	Okay.

sd	Think someone can do it.	b	Yeah.

sd	Maybe I should start thinking about it again.	ad	Well, try it

o@	I thought, I shouldn't out of the blue just jump in.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I haven't done it.	b	Uh huh.

fc	Well you have a good night.	fc	Thanks a lot.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qw	So, what kind of neat hobbies do you have?	sd	Well, I like gardening a lot,

sd	That's what everything turns.	qy	but, do you keep trying anyway?

sd	they send them to you all ready alive.	nn	No,

b	really.	ny	Right.

sd	Since I've got cats, I decided to get some catnip.	b	Oh.

sd	so I'm encouraged .	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I've had to get my money back from them and had better luck with some of the more expensive companies.

qrr	or building supplies place.	nn	No.

o@	and, they offer just as good a guarantee, if you buy it from them.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	now our local stores don't offer any guarantee.

sd	so, I'm going to wait on those.	qr	they're bulbs for Spring or Fall?

sd	something, to keep me occupied, you see.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I'll, buy some plastic and make a little house	ba	Cute.

sd	and watch the cats tear it up.	b	Right.

na	they just like to get in and dig.	bk	I see

sd	And then my cats got into it and started digging and that took care of that.	ba	gee.

sd	Especially the catnip.	qw	How many cats do you have?

sd	Three.	bk	okay.

qw	But, why would it be illegal?	sd	Well, because we have these tow ,

b	right.	sv	And, you know, they want, privacy fences.

sv	Well, yeah, if nobody complains you're all right.	b	Right,

sv	and if somebody raises a stink about it you can always go before the association and argue your case anyway.	b	Right,

sv	You know, you don't have to put up with all these wild critters coming into your property.	b	Right,

b^m	right here, Bambi .	aa	Exactly.

t1	what else do I, mostly just computer stuff.	b	Oh.

sd	I like to think that I'm a very good cook.	ba	great.

sv	you don't have a lot of time.	aa	Right

sd	and raising cats.	sd	I mean that could become a hobby.

sd	Well, it started out as a hobby actually.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And now it developed in to going to cat shows and finding studs for them, and, you know, all this kind of stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've got a Bombay, a Turkish Van and a Himalayan Persian.	ba	Wow.

sd	Only going to breed them once.	b	okay.

sd	And, she's not feeling too great today.	qy	is that typical, to only breed them once?

sv	and I, I just think that I don't know, it's kind of cruel.	b	Uh huh,

sv	and, you're never rea ,	b	Right.

sv	and so you end up with, you know, kind of strange kittens.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And I just don't like that.	qy	So will, you, breed one of the litter, then next year?

ng	we sold all that litter,	b	Oh.

sd	there's not that much call for Bombays.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they're not, they're not show cats.	b	I see.

sd	so all you can do is sell them as pet quality.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They want things like Himie Persians and Turkish Vans.	b	Uh huh.

sd	he's mostly white with, brown and black patches.	b	Oh.

sd	and we'll end up keeping one out of each litter and then breeding those.	b	Right.

sd	we want to breed her with a champion,	b	Right.

sd^e	the Persian is,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and the other two are short hairs.	b	Right.

sd	Going to have some nice kittens, I hope.	b	Uh huh

sd	but she has chocolate, paws, chocolate stomach and silver on her hindquarters.	ba	Gee.

sd	she's quite attractive looking.	b	Uh huh,

sd	hope the stud will find her attractive.	sd	And that she has kittens that look like her.

sd	so that the silver will be predominate in the kittens.	b	I see.

sd(^q)	can't just go out there and say, okay, you guys breed, you know .	sv	You can't just tell them that anyway,

aa	That's right.	ba	dear.

sd	And I don't like Devon Rexes at first.	qw	What is it.

sd	it comes from England and, in the county of Devon.	b	Oh.

sd	It's curly, as a matter of fact.	ba	interesting.

qw	what kind of fishing do you do?	sd	Well, mostly, a little fresh water fish,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, down here I haven't fished much in Texas.

sd	That's one of the few things I've ever fished for is rainbow trout.	sd	they're really not,

qw	what kind of bait do you use to catch them?	sd	just, usually worms, night crawlers.

bh	really?	na	Sometimes .

b^m	Fish eggs?	ny	Yeah.

b	Huh.	sd	just little fish eggs.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, there's this one kind of cheese that you can put on the end of a hook

sd	I didn't know that.	b	Yeah

ba	That's a great way.	sd	and they really like that.

sd@	also. look, catfish,	sd	Now I have never caught catfish.

sd	personally I like to catch large mouth bass and catfish because they fight the best .	b	Uh huh.

sd	But a catfish will really just tear into anything like that, like liver or, cheese or anything that smells terrible .	bh	is that right?

sd^e	Actually I always used to go to my grandparents' in Oklahoma	b@	 Uh huh.

sd	and what we'd do is let the line all the way to the bottom and crank up, you know turns on the reel about six to twelve times	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the fish would be sitting at different levels.	ba	how about that.

sd	And if you left it on the bottom, there was a good chance that you'd catch catfish.	b	Oh.

sd	And, of course, depending on how big your bait was, you know, would be depending on what you caught.	ba	I think that is really interesting.

sd	and we used to have a light at the top of the water.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He'd really spoiled me in that respect.	sd	see, and I wish I could go fishing here because I don't really know much about the fishing here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You bait the hook,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then you wait

b	Yeah.	sd	and they troll it a little bit.

qy	do you have any friends with ponds?	nn	No.

sv	seems like every time somebody's on the bank, all they want to do is throw it out just as far as they can and, bring it in to you.	b	Yeah.

sd	you want to make it land right on the shore and then drag like a plastic worm and just have it come into the water like a regular animal or fish well, you know, something coming off from the bank like they usually do .	b	uh huh.

sd	So you don't have to really get, fish from a boat, you know, because they're actually right there at the shore.	b	Huh.

sd	I am now .	b^m	You are now.

b	yeah	sd	I've never used those.

sd	but the key is to always have your line tight.	b	Yeah,

sd	and believe me you'll know the difference.	qw	what kind of fish do you like the best to eat?

sd	crappie actually.	^g	do you ?

sd	And I also like Spanish mackerel.	b@	 Yes,

qy	Have you ever fished off the pier?	sd^e	I've done fishing like that

sd	they have like yellow, fuzz on a hook, you know, that kind of comes out.	ba	I know.

b	Yeah.	sd	they're sort of like, well, I want to say flies,

sd	and they're bigger.	b	Yeah.

ad	Get the yellow ones.	b^m	The yellow.

aa	Those are the ticket .	b	Okay .

sd	You don't even have to have a good rod or anything. just even a regular line	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're all silver, something real shiny about that long.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They'll go after that in a heartbeat also. Just anything that really shines or spins.	b	Yeah,

sd	That's it.	b	Yeah.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

ba	That's neat.	sv	Well, you sound like you're a good fisher woman, too.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Well, I guess the, most interesting one that's, going on right now, from my perspective, is this, phenomena of, Ross Perot.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I had heard other people talk about what they thought he believed in.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But the whole phenomena of him coming out of, literally nowhere and no party. at least, no apparent party support on either side is pretty interesting.

sd	I have not even heard, believe it or not, of that person.	b	Uh huh.

sd	when you said it, it was kind of like a surprise.	bf	Like out of nowhere?

sv@	I think mainly because I haven't been watching what's politically going on. you know, in that aspect.	b	Uh huh.

sd	like now, the new house bill that went to Minnesota, being that it is their neighboring state and that I lived in Minnesota, I'm more familiar with the politics that involved with that, and that being passed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	 it gets harder and harder each time an election comes up like that, to make the decision on who would be the best to run.	b	Uh huh.

o@	 Uh huh.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	one of the common criticisms of Clinton is, gee, he'll say or do anything in order to get to the White House.

b	Sure.	sv	and, up and to the point of, Perot being a serious candidate, it seems like that was a requirement of being a contender within the party is to have done all those things.

b	Sure.	sd	I mean, here's a guy who for twenty years has been working toward, you know, getting the party nomination and preparing himself for the presidency

sd	I mean, they were not rich in in any means	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it has been kind of, in the past, I don't know, maybe fifty years that in order for a person to get involved with politics, they've had to have money.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And you had to have the views of the people that were going to be paying your way.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you think of Abraham Lincoln and, you know, just the background of Abraham Lincoln. You know, teaching himself to read.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He didn't come from money.	b	Uh huh.

b	sure.	sd	but he lost some eighteen elections before he finally won one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the first and only election he won was, the presidency .

b	Yeah	sd	he had lost every other office that he had, you know,

sv	So you really know a lot of his background.	ny	Yeah.

sv	It's the one that everybody wants.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I really have to ask them why, you know.	b	Yeah

sv	I mean you have to go through so many different,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you have to go the House, the Congress, and all of the other things to get a bill passed.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think long time ago presidents did have a lot of power.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	And, I've pressed the button.	b	Okay.

b^m	You haven't been to too many places.	nn	No,

sd	I have been to Hawaii.	sd	See now, that is where I want to go.

sd	It is beautiful.	ba	I know.

sd	Well, there is a lot of Japanese over there.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	qy	Is it?

sd@	But there is still a lot of beautiful places to go and see. You know, On all of the islands. You know,	b	Yeah.

sd	Oahu naturally has got more people on it than the other islands.	b	Uh huh.

ad	You have got to see at least once.	aa	well I will. You know,

sd	I like Maui.	b^m	Maui.

sd@	and it is really nice. Where the island of Hawaii, you can't really lay on the beach over there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't know, just not nice as Maui.	b	Yeah.

qw	And then, where have you been?	sd	Well, I have been to California.

bh	you have?	sd	I loved it.

b	Oh.	b	Yeah,

qw	How long ago?	sd	eighty six.

b	Okay.	sd	My sister lives out there .

sd@	I know where that is at. Because I use to live in Oakland.	b	Yes.

b^r	Right.	b	Yeah,

ny^r	Uh huh.	ba	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	^h	lets see I went when she was living,

b	right.	sd	And then they moved to Piedmont.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I haven't seen, you know, her house in Piedmont

qy	Did you go on the cable cars and everything?	b	yeah.

qy	Isn't that fun?	sd	Went to Alcatraz.

sd	Up by Napa.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	beautiful.

b	Yeah.	sd	And we went to Carmel.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we took the eighteen mile drive.

sd	I love it down there.	sd	it is beautiful.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My girlfriend was down there a few months ago.

^2	the weather.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well I have also been to the Carribean.	sd	I haven't been there either .

sd	Well I, have been there a couple of times.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I went on a cruise.	ba	that is nice.

sd	The last time I went, I went with my two sisters.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it was over Christmas time.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we really had a good time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they had put a Christmas tree on the beach decorated it up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was a lot of fun.	ba	Well, that's nice.

ny	yeah.	bf	It is.

sd	You put your clothes in your room,	b	Uh huh.

ad	you will have to go on one.	qy	You don't get seasick?

nn	No.	b^m	No,

sd	some people did, on that last cruise that we took because they was having a storm come in	b	Uh huh.

sd	but that is unusual.	b	Yeah.

sd@	and I didn't. You know	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they just do so many things for you, you know, to make you enjoy the trip and everything.	b	Right,

sd	but I want to go to Alaska.	b	yes.

b^r	Uh huh.	t1	Was it to Alaska?

bh	really?	sd	She went last year.

b	Right.	sd	And, that I would like to go,

aa	I think I would like to, too.	b	Yeah.

sd	I keep hoping to win the lottery where I can do all these things. You know.	sd	well see, I am just in the Publisher's Clearing House and the READER'S DIGEST, because we don't, {F uh,

sd	so. So, I was thinking about a couple things, and whether they are serious.	b	okay.

sv	I guess the biggest thing that bothers me is,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but one of the things that bothers me is the credit information, situation, that you find yourself almost compromised into giving if you want any sort of credit, extensive checks and things of that nature.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I don't know whether, some of the questions they ask are legitimate because they are the ones who are making the profit out of your ,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They showed a reporter and a copy editor how they went out

sv	Well I guess then it's just the big brother concept of the fact, that once you give your social security number there are people I guess who are, actually collecting all this all the time	b	Uh huh.

o@	and, and profiles are given.	b	Yeah.

sd	I read the other day that, these telemarketeers when someone talks to you on the phone all they need now is your telephone number, which I guess is involved in this controversy of whether they can reveal your telephone number or not.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I, I feel that is an invasion of privacy	aa	I do too,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, husband and wife, owners, who had never done this before.

aa	exactly.	sd	in terms of the credit,

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	and I mean after we gave our fingerprints to the F B I, you, look at each other, yeah, you look at each other and say, well, , it's too late now.

ba@	My God. Yeah.	sv	so I mean it's a matter of anybody can get it any way and how if they really try,

sd	I have a particular subject that not everyone agrees with me,	b	Uh huh,

sd	I make my living by, flying airplanes for, for a company.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, as an airline pilot I have to take random drug testing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so when I finish a certain flight on a random basis I have to, have a drug test	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, and that's without probably cause,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and one of them was a bad test,	^2	Positive for anything,

b	Yeah.	sd	And then now, I'm in corporate communications,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, part of that excuse me, was, as a new hire, that I had to take a drug test,

b	righ ,	sd	and I had never been asked that

b	Yeah.	sv	I think that it's well

b	right.	b	yeah,

aa	I am.	sd	I don't know there should be some happy medium in terms of,

b	Yeah.	sv	I don't see a problem with that.

sd	I can understand the public's alarm to it,	b	Yeah,

co	but now, try to get the damn thing repealed, you know.	ar	You can't,

sv	doesn't seem the courts,	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, that kind of screening in general is a matter of exclusion.

aa	That's right.	sv	you hate to say that,

sd^t	but that was part of the question,	b	Uh huh,

sv	I do feel the courts have held up a great deal of our privacy, I mean particularly look in some of the, in some of the,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I notice in some of the sexual cases they've held up a great deal of privacy, which I support of course,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you have to answer these questions, of course.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I don't really know how serious it is, except I don't like it .	sd	In terms of the privacy, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think this is much stronger than, you know, pilots or, train engineers being screened,

b	Yeah.	sd	the transmission of the AIDS virus,

br	What was that?	sd^r	The young girl that, contracted AIDS through her dentist, allegedly.

bk^r	yeah.	sd	And then they proved it,

b	Right.	sd	I don't know, I don't know if it's the old story that we are killing ourselves in general, or what,

sv	and the next thing you know then, there's always the need to go and inspect lockers of high school students,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you just moved to Texas from Minneapolis.	b	Yeah

sv	I don't, I don't hold out much hope for you.	b	Yeah.

sd	in at least in criminal law some of the, latitudes that the police had,	ba	very seriously,

bk	Oh yeah.	ny	And, yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	it's no better than journalism . except in journalism it's words,

b@	 Yeah.	sd	they picked them up off the street

sd	Well, I mean, I don't understand,	qy	You know.

qh	if they don't make a criminal check, why do you have to be fingerprinted.	sd	Because, in our case, one is at the state and the other one is at the federal level. because you have to deal with the I N,

qy^g	Well that's rather unusual, isn't it.	ny	Yeah

sv	and then if we really think that drugs are a problem we can randomly stop anybody on the street.	sd	they do that in Texas.

bh	they do?	na	They don't do it for drugs,

sv	Well there's all sorts of scare tactics, I guess, to, to invade our privacy	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm old enough now where George Orwell,

sd	I just going to say, NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR, is come and gone	b	Yeah.

sv	but it's here.	aa	Yeah,

sd	The computer abilities store that information.	ad^t	Well look at what we're talking now,

fp	And a very good afternoon to you.	fp^m	And good afternoon to you.

qrr	or do you, have a lot of people come in and have to prepare for them?	nn	no.

qy^g	Now you're in Dallas, is it?	na	Right,

b	Okay.	sd	Of course, dinner parties down here probably, turn out to be more things like barbecues .

sd	I was thinking in terms of Mexican almost, Tex Mex.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and when I go out to eat dinner sometimes that's the type of foods I like to find.	b	Uh huh.

sd	or in these different restaurants in this area that, have all this fine Mexican foods.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, actually I never get too much fried chicken.	b^m	Fried chicken.

sd@	But I would have fried chicken, with reasonably hot sauce on it. Almost a Mexican type thing.	b	Uh huh.

qy@	Have you ever had twice cooked potatoes? with a cream made of the sour cream and cream cheese and, a little oleo and I use, oregano and maybe dill weed, mixed in with it.	ny	yes,

sd	And, I like broccoli casseroles which would include onion and cheese and more dill weed and some medium hot peppers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	As you can see, I'm inclined towards the Mexican type of a meal .	b	Right .

sd	And I would probably have some quiet and gentle fried onion rings mixed in there with it too.	b	Uh huh.

qo	So, how would you improve upon that?	b^m	improve upon that?

b^m	More fresh vegetables?	ny	Yeah.

qy	Included to that?	sd	green beans and, carrots and things like that.

qw	How do you cook your green beans?	b^m	My green beans?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	I just get fresh green beans from the grocery store and snap off the ends and put them in water and steam them for about ten minutes.

bf	what you use and in herbs and so forth.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it makes them pretty tasty.

qy	Have you ever tried Chinese type green beans?	b^m	The Chinese type.

sd	We use soy sauce,	nn	No,

sd	and you also have a little cream sauce in there because you you would use the, water and,	b	Uh huh.

qw	golly. What's this white powder that, that you mix with water and gives a thick sauce?	b^m	A white powder.

sd	I can't even think of the name of that right at the moment.	ba	gosh.

fa	sorry about my mind.	bd	That's okay.

sd	But, it does make a nice thick creamy sauce with the green beans	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then you have a nice soy sauce taste under it with a few onions in there with it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it brings out so much different things in, in the string beans.	b	Yeah.

sd@	I hardly ever cook them the same way twice. Just so I can enjoy them.	b	Uh huh.

ad	So you might, think about that.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Chinese cooking actually has a lot of very delicious tastes to them.	b	yes.

sd	And, north African cooking is good when you use something called couscous.	b^m	North African?

sv	You probably have to buy that from specialty stores.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They eat it one to two meals everyday in north Africa.	b	Huh.

sd	It makes a fantastic, salad with cucumbers and, olive oil and onions	b	Uh huh.

fc	and, that's one thing we can enjoy is good delicious food.	fc	yes.

fc	Well, thank you very much Miss Diane.	fc	Okay,

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

sd^t	Okay, I guess, we are just supposed to talk about things we do in our spare time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I basically read books.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I will work on one for a little bit, you know, and then the next one.	sv	Well, that is pretty impressive to have three books going.

bd	just sometimes.	b	yeah.

sd	I have one that I was reading on, raising your children and then another one on an autobiography, and another one on, like a crime story .	b	yeah

sd	A true crime story.	qy	do you like those detective stories?

sd	Reading that one last night.	ba	well that is interesting.

sd	like my husband.	b	Yeah

b	Yeah	b	Yeah,

qy^d	You must, work for T I?	ny	Yes.

sd	my husband does too.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I have a lot of other hobbies.

b	really.	b	Well, yeah,

b	really.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	To find broken,

qw	What kinds of things do you fix?	sd	Well, essentially anything you find in a house. a stove, or oven or a broken piece of porcelain or, chipped tile on the floor. I mean just anything.

qy	And you have a shop?	na	Well it is not anything elaborate.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, enough that, again for anything in the house I could probably,

^2	you can fix just about everything and anything.	aa	Right.

ba	Well, that is great.	sd	I guess the car too.

b	Yeah.	sv	And so, I think I probably would consider that a hobby.

sd	He rarely takes them in	b	Yeah

sd	We rarely have to take those things in too.	b	Right.

aa	definitely.	qr	So, do you have any how do I say it, creative or artistic hobbies?

sd	I mean during Christmas I work on, you know, like, holiday sweat shirts and those kinds of things.	b	yeah,

bd	but, not really .	b	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	I don't necessarily draw or do any of that kind of art,

b	Yeah.	sd	I can't do any of that,

sd	I belong to this organization if you have preschool children	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, every once and a while they will have a craft, section for the moms	b	yeah.

sd	and we learn to do the, transfer pictures on the sweatshirts transfer photos	b	yeah.

sd	So we learn different crafts like that ,	ba	I see.

b	Yeah.	sv	I guess you could consider that a hobby.

sd^e	I cook dinner .	sv	That's not something you,

sv	I don't consider it a hobby .	ba	I understand that.

sd	I am not a real elaborate cook or anything like that unfortunately.	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's not anything elaborate, you know .	b	Right.

sd	At least, I don't think it is.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	Probably the other thing I do which I am sure will sound horrible to you, is I program for fun. on the computer.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I have little computer projects going on that I consider hobbies.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, drive my wife crazy.

qy^d	You have a computer at home?	na	I do,

ba	good.	sd	In fact, there is actually several of them here right now.

b	really.	sd	Not all of them being mine.

qy^d	Then you are busy .	ny	Yeah.

ba	that is very good.	qy	I wonder if you can construe raising children as being a hobby?

sd	the book is so detailed	b	Uh huh.

qy	do you have children?	ny	Yeah,

bk	okay.	sd	And we had kind of a hard time finding someplace we could put Michael's goods ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he was going to school at five.

b	Oh.	sd	So, he started the first grade when he was five

aa	Uh huh.	sd^r	first grade when he was five years old.

bf	And you had trouble finding somewhere for him to be before he was five.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we tried to find him someplace where he could learn something.

b	Right.	sd	And it was, mediocre expensive,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it's really hard to find someplace where you can send your child and expect him to learn something.

sd	, even not only toddlers but, you know, even your older children.	b	Yeah.

bf	It's hard to find anywhere they're really going to learn something.	aa	Yeah,

sv	the better the place, the more you're going to pay.	b	Yeah,

aa	very true.	sd	You know, my wife works

b	Uh huh.	sd	so. We try to,

sd	If I had any children I hope that I'll be in a position to stay home with my child because I'm not real, trusting , a lot of people, especially today.	b	Yeah,

sd	and I just see different things all the time,	b	Yeah.

h	and, and I don't, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	it takes me a long time to just trust someone as a friend, much less to, you know, trust someone with my child.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we found a preschool for him.

b	Uh huh.	sd	through other folks where I work,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, through other folks where we worked we found a nice preschool

b	Uh huh.	sd	we, had those requirements,

sv	I guess that's the best way, you know, to get, recommendations from your friends or, family members.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they still have unlicensed baby sitters running around up here

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, I think it's out of sight or out of mind, for less than, for more than, a minute or so.

sv	I mean not that they're going to abuse your child or anything, but you just have to be sure that they're going to be watching them, you know, that they wouldn't let them drink something or, you know, eat something off the floor, you know,	^2	But you never know.

sd	just simple things, that can be harmful.	sv	as, as far as child abuse is these days you never know,

b	Uh huh.	bf	you don't know who you can trust, and who you can't, you know.

sd	and also, senior care facilities, you know, you hear abuse.	b	Yeah,

sv	and you almost want to, you know, spend a couple of weeks in class with your child just to see how it is or something.	b	Yeah.

nn	Huh uh.	ba	Gee.

nn	No.	qy	Do you miss that part in your life

o@	so I, still have a little bit of time,	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm trying to get my career going.	ba	I imagine,

b	Uh huh.	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	ad	anyway back to the subject,

aa	Yeah.	sv	we should have discussed this earlier,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it really is,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's hard to find someplace where you can leave your child and trust that he's, going to be fine all day long.

sv	you would hope that maybe they'd come home and know some of their A B C's or something, you know,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	He's in first grade now,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he's, you know, got a second grade reading level and a fourth grade math level.

b	Huh.	sd	So, you know, those early ages he would, you know, when his mom and dad are at work, and he's actually in child care in a preschool not, just child care, you know, we could have sent him to anybody, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	there's a lot people at work that would have baby sat him but sending him to a preschool where he actually learns something, has paid off not only for us,

b	Right.	sd	his attitude is I think a little bit, tall for a six year old

qy	Did you take this same, route with your other two children?	^h	they were outside my marriage,

b	Uh huh.	h	so, I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	nn	I would say, no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they're really good,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I guess, no,

sd	And it helps that he has older brothers, you know, just to have role models and things like that.	b	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	so, we faced that too

b	Huh.	sd	he learned quite a bit not only from nursery school

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, he's excelled

ba	That's excellent.	sd	sometimes he's a little bit smart mouthed,

b	Uh huh	sd	but he is smart , you know.

qh	Well, what kid isn't , these days,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but in Lubbock we have a few that you can send your children to

qy	Do they have any kind of program like at T I or wherever your wife works, some in kind of day care?	nn	No,

sd	because I know they're putting that into a lot of, corporations now.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	nn	so, no,

sd	So, maybe that will be an option for,	sd	Well, it would be nice, you know, there,

sd	But then I foresee that being just a baby sitting thing not much learning but, you know, kind of somebody to just watch your kid while your at work.	b	Yeah,

b	Huh.	sd	and then some substitute teachers in the afternoon,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they actually taught him something instead of just watching him all day.

b	Right.	sd	You know, and then they had a group of kids

b	Huh.	sd	and they did the Halloween thing, and the Valentine's Day things

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you know, it was important to us,

b	Huh.	sd	so you know, we took a good look at it and made sure it was going to go that way.

qrr	or is it better the other way with a lot of different,	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't think he needed to be attached to too, even though he did,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, he attached himself to a couple of those,

b	Right.	sd	but I think his attachments at home

b	Huh.	^q	and this person can teach me one thing and this person teach me another

b	huh.	sd	He did well,

b	Uh huh.	sd@	with another child I can't say that. Because I don't have that experience.

sv	each child is individual, in life learning and things.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, I don't think we made too many mistakes.

ba	Well, it sounds good,	sd	We tried hard.

sd	sounds like he's doing real well.	b	Yeah,

ba	good.	sd	And he learned from it

b^r	Uh huh.	^q	You know, maybe I'll clean my house, maybe I'll cook you lunch, maybe I won't, you know,

b	Uh huh.	o@	and, Yeah,

sd	And they'll probably sit him in front of the television, you know, while they do other things,	b	yeah.

b@	Huh. Yeah.	sd	but we had a good experience,

ba^r	that's good.	sd	and he served better than we did, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I think in the long run he gained from it just being somewhere where we learned something, instead of just sitting around watching T V, and playing all day.

b^r	right.	sv	And it's important.

sd	That's probably what I'll try and look for whenever I do have my children,	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know when that will be,	b	Yeah.

sd	it will take me a long time to find somewhere I'm sure, just because I just want to be, I want to be so positive that, you know, my children are okay, as well as the other children in the center, you know.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we just didn't want to dump him somewhere, and make him feel like he wasn't wanted.

aa	Exactly.	sd	And we wanted his center of attention at home

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it worked out real well,

sv	it's a lot more difficult these days because you have both parents working a lot of times,	b	yeah,

sv	and, so, you have to find day care, whereas, you know, here,	sv	Most of the time now it's a necessity,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you can't afford,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, you know, I'm not making seventy or eighty thousand dollars a year

sd	so child care's a necessity, whereas years ago, you know, the husband basically worked and the wife, basically stayed home.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, I'm forty now

sv	I think that has a lot to do with just all children how they learn and things just because the basic family is breaking, you know,	aa	Yeah,

sv	the basic family is not there anymore.	aa	I'll agree with that, it is.

sv	I think that plays a big part in a child's learning and, you know, what they can and cannot do in child care.	b	Yeah.

sd	currently, I'm not doing a whole lot of exercise in any type of program.	b	Huh uh.

sd	All this space that normally would be dedicated towards the, exercise area, is covered in boxes.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I had, a little routine that I did for warm ups.	b	Huh uh.

sd	I'm not trying to make big bulging muscles, just trying to try and stay as firm as I can stay in my old age .	b	Huh uh.

b	Huh uh.	sd	but every weekend a small town will sponsor a rally

b	Huh uh.	sd	so we try to ride during the week to try and stay in shape for that.

sd	I have three left living at home.	b	Huh uh.

sd	And they do take up a big part of my evening and weekend.	b	Yeah.

sv	And it's tough being a parent and doing all the things that you should do for yourself, too.	b	Yeah.

sv	when you become a parent most of your life is going to be dedicated to your children.	b	Huh uh .

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	what I found from my experience is you have to budget time for yourself.	b	Huh uh.

sv	but basically, the healthier you stay, the longer you'll live.	aa	Right.

sv	And those people that I'm taking the ten minutes or twenty minutes away from now, well, you know, get the enjoyment of me, years past where I would have been if I wouldn't have taken it.	b	Huh uh.

sv	If you kind of think of it as a rationale like that, it works out fine.	b	Yeah.

b	Huh uh.	sd	he was the pioneer of aerobics and all of health really.

sd	and I found that probably one of the worst things that anybody can ingest is chlorinated water.	b	Really .

sd	and I've actually been in the drinking watering business since eighty three.	b	Huh uh.

sd	And, it's amazing, that, you know, prior to like nineteen twenty there were very few heart attacks.	b	Huh uh.

sd	You can usually find it in a health food store.	b	Huh uh.

sd	I used live in Plano.	br	Dr. Price?

sd	or even diets that quadrupled the amount of cholesterol that we're ingesting now,	b@	Huh uh. That's really interesting.

sd	He did some experiments on chickens whose arteries are very similar to ours. And, proved that ingestion of chlorine causes arteriosclerosis, which is the, clogging of the arteries.	b	Huh uh.

sd	well there's good cholesterol and there's bad cholesterol.	b	Huh uh.

sd	And, E P A never published that report.	qw	And what's the name of this book again?

sd^r	CORONARY, CHOLESTEROL AND CHLORINE.	sd	I'll have to remember that.

b	Yeah.	sd	That will be very interesting.

b	Yeah.	sd	And in fact, he's a, well, heart, too,

sv	And a lot of the myths they've been passing around, people are starting to realize aren't true.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, I'm all for having a diet high in fiber and all that, because that's good for you,	b	Huh uh.

sv	but to think that solely, alone is going to cause something like arteriosclerosis is just hard to believe.	sd	If you get a chance read Dr. Cooper's book on controlling cholesterol.

b	Huh uh.	sv	That's a real good,

sd	I actually eat pretty much anything that I want.	b	Huh uh.

sd	and I've never been above, like, you know, one hundred and fifty, never.	b	Huh uh.

sv	You know, they leave themselves wide open so they can't be sued.	b	Yeah.

sd	I work at the T I site in Hunt Valley, Maryland.	b	really.

sd	and, you know, I've always come out aces.	ba	That's good.

sd	but I do eat, you know, some health cookies that are high in fiber, low in fat and all that kind of stuff.	b	Yeah.

fp	it certainly is, going to be a pleasure to chat with you.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	Normally I talk to people in Plano, Texas.	aa	Yeah,

qw^t	How did you get on this list?	sd^t	through Nancy Dahlgren.

qo	What ideas do you have on that, Doug?	sd	I don't think they're necessarily widespread in this country,

qw	In what manner?	sd	Well, it's certainly not that difficult to tap a phone.

b	Uh huh.	^h	and let's see,

sv	Well, the thing that I thought they were, concerned about was people calling on the phone from all over the country to sell you something	b	Uh huh.

sv	To me that's an invasion of privacy.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's, you know, possible for a thirteen year old hacker with a modem to find out almost anything about your personal history, not to mention, change it if he wants to.

br^m	You mean your history in regards to, the charge card company or something like that?	ny	Well, yes,

qy	Do you consider these serious, problems?	ng	not yet anyways, because I don't think they're widespread enough,

qrr	or what could be done about it, do you think to correct it?	sv	 I'm not really sure, because the, I mean society is going more and more electronic,

na	Well, I would think that, information held on records, by any company or charge card dealer or person should be absolutely private and not be allowed to be, given out by those companies.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, it should be made a, national or a state law to protect people so that, you would then feel more free to deal direct with these companies.	b	Uh huh.

sv	In other words, if you call the company yourself, directly, and then know that what you tell them will be on their records but will not be available to anyone else, you know, from the outside, so to speak then you would feel more free to go into detail with them	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we have no control of that now	b	Uh huh.

qr	I was wondering whether you were in favor of statehood, independence, or the status quo for Puerto Rico.	sd	I was a resident, although very young of what is now the state of Alaska in nineteen fifty nine when Alaska stopped being a territory and became a state.

sd	I did Peace Corps training there.	ba	that's very interesting.

sd	and, I guess I have never thought to ask her what she favors,	qr	Your concern on the economy was one in terms of, if it became a state would that put even more pressures on Puerto Rico, or pressures on the U. S. in terms of aid

sd	So, I don't know how the U. S. would cope with, a new state that is so very, very poor.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I suppose or the whole, new state would require such aid.	qy^d	I guess, we're assuming that Puerto Rico would be per capita significantly more poor perhaps than say Mississippi

na	I think so.	bk	Okay,

sd	I'm trying to think exactly what is imposed if they would become a state versus a territory.	b	Uh huh.

ad@	Perhaps compulsory education. and taxes .	aa	I see what you mean,

sd	So, if they've just taken such action, it would seem to indicate to me either they're doing it because they're afraid they might become a state and want to declare this before they become a state, or maybe because they don't want to become a state for fear of losing the Spanish, or Hispanic heritage.	b	Uh huh,

na	I believe I would probably tend towards that.	sd	And I think, having listened to you relative to the economy thing, I think if I were being forced to make a decision I would plead ignorance and wait to do more research before picking one of these.

qh	What about if, they demanded to have Spanish as the official language as a condition for statehood.	sv	I think I would be troubled,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I am particularly fond of a number of ethnic cuisines,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And Canada, I guess, comes to my mind as they're going through the throes up there relative to French Quebec and whatever.

sd	And so, obviously it didn't work in California.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	and I'd be quite happy to see a national law in which every student was required to learn English and a second language.

b	Right.	sv	But I'm disturbed by a country that attempts to be functionally bilingual at the official level.

ba	I see.	sd	I'm concerned about whether or not that causes fractiousness I guess.

b^r	uh huh.	sd^t	Well I think we have gone to time

fc	well thank you very much.	fc	Good bye.

oo^t	And I guess, the suggestion is that we maybe talk about a menu for a dinner party, if we wanted to do something like that or, share recipes or something,	aa	Yes,

qy	Are you one who gives dinner parties very often?	nn	No.

sd^e	nor am I.	sd	I avoid them with all ,

sd	that is for sure.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yes.	sv^m	but they are a lot of work.

b	Yeah.	sd	I usually have them when there is a special event in our lives

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And, I think I am most, happiest with my most, familiar foods that I know are successful.

b	yes.	sd	You know, and I make my own pies and pie crust

b	Uh huh.	sd	I do not need a recipe to follow.

sv	I mean, I guess after many years of doing it, you just, kind of do it second nature.	b	Yeah,

qy^g	She enjoyed it, .	ny	Yes .

sd	Well, there is a woman in our choir, who is nearly famous for her apple pies,	b	Uh huh.

sd	excuse me, and, one of her pies was auctioned for fifty dollars .	fe	My word,

sd	but I do recall that it was quite good,	ba	Wonderful.

sd	that was more my specialty, I suppose.	b	Uh huh,

sv	pies would go practically, in a day's time .	b	Yeah

b	Yes.	sd	and, you know, it has got to be gone or daddy gets into you know, the leftovers.

b	Right .	sd	Puts about two more inches on his waistline

sd	and she was telling me that she had a dinner party over the weekend, for friends of hers.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you ever made that or had it?	nn	No,

sd	I had, used to work with a gentleman who was from Cuba, who would make it, 	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's like, an egg custard in a caramelized sugar, with on top of it.	b	okay.

sd	but it's very, very high in cholesterol, I am sure with all the eggs that are in it.	b	Sure,

sd	and flan is almost, a basic with every meal that you get, there.	bf	Like apple pie in America,

ny	uh huh.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So if you ever run into that you will sort, of be aware of what that is all about.	b	Yeah.

sd	but, you know, sopapillas, I guess, would be another kind of a dessert, if you decided to do something like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	flan is something you can, make ahead and you know, have ready	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's one of those things where it does require some real, planning	aa	Yes,

sv	you have the house to clean and, you know, the whole business that goes with it.	sd	Well, when I have a dinner party that is my motivation for getting the, house clean .

sd	the house needs cleaning, I guess I had better have a dinner party .	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	it's at her house,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So she has got to hire this crew, of four women to come in two weeks prior to the wedding and get it ready.

fe	Good heavens .	b	Yes,

ba	wow.	b	Yeah,

sd	That is such a nice thing,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, then } I got so involved and so busy, I said "this is one luxury I am going to let myself have every now and then".	b	Uh huh.

sd	but for me it was wonderful .	b	Sure,

sv	and it buys you time to do other things, like have a dinner party, I guess.	aa	That's right,

sd	So, it is just a real gift of time as far as I am concerned,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have heard about that.	qy	Have you?

sd	I do not know that it has egg in it.	bc	Egg and sugar.

b	uh huh.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you have it right on the top of you head? .	nn	no,

sd	You do not have it,	sd	like the liquid is like, a half cup of water and then your egg and then your tablespoon of vinegar,

b	Right.	sd	and you mix that together

ba	quite large,	sd	it's quite a volume of,

b	Right.	sd	I think it's four cups of floor,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, like, a tablespoon of salt and a tablespoon of sugar

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then you, put in your liquid.

qy	what is it about the, the vinegar that, makes, the crust better.	sd	It just, it just makes it very pliable and, and very flaky,

ba	Interesting.	sd	and, you can really treat it rough

ba	boy, that's the real secret.	sd	Like, it's not mine,

sd	and so I decided to bake about four pies ahead, you know, and freeze them,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Those were the toughest or apple, pie crust, I have ever, ever made.	ba	wow.

qw	Where about?	sd	Detroit,

sd	Well, we lived in Plymouth for four years,	b	yeah,

sd	and, I worked for the weekly newspaper there, the, the Plymouth, what was it called, CRIER.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so he was born and, raised up there.	b	Uh huh.

qy	so, Are you originally from Michigan	ny	yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Born in Detroit.

qw^t	our topic today?	b	yeah,

sd	My wife's a school teacher	cc	Well, then, I'll walk softly.

sv	I don't think the teachers get enough support, quite honestly.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, of course, like everyone, she has kids that get pregnant even in the seventh grade.	qw	What school system does she teach in?

sd	Plano School System.	ba	wow.

sv	I don't think that's right, especially if they're interrupting the class and preventing other kids from learning.	arp	Well, I think it's more of a,

aa	Yes.	sd	to give you an example, both of my children are in the academy system in the Garland School District,

b	Sure.	sv	And most of,

sd	that was more than his college tuition was	b	Yeah

sv	But I'll tell you what, there, there are a few faults, to say the least, in the school systems today.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think we have that problem dealing in most areas, which is unfortunate.	sv	And, that also probably crosses over into business, because now, businesses also say that if you're don't have the proper education, including, exposure to high tech fields such as computer technology, if you can't use a computer today and do word processing and do, data base management and do, I forget all the other stuff, financial management and all this other kind of stuff in your regular job, you can't function you know.

aa	You bet.	sv	So I think that the school system proliferates over to the business world

qw	What kind of books do you like best?	sd	Well, I alternate between Danielle Steele is one of my very favorites

sd	I don't think I've read it.	sd	it is it is wonderful.

sd	Well, I'm a Tom Clancy fan.	bk	Okay.

sd	I do a lot of computer reading	b	yes.

sd	so, I do more work kind of related reading than, just for enjoyment.	sd	I try to keep a book going all the time.

ba	Well, that's pretty good.	sd	in fact this morning, I was almost late for work because I'm almost at the end of this book

sd	I've had them like that before, too.	sd	But I like mysteries.

qy	Any particular writer?	ny	yes,

^2	Ludwig,	aa^m	Ludwig, yes.

aa	Yes.	sd	And, I like Jeffrey Archer.

qw@	What does he write? Oh.	sd	He is an English author who writes some mystery.

sd	So, you kind of learn something as well as enjoy yourself.	b	Right,

^2	RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK stuff.	ar	No,

b	Oh.	sd	it's late,

qw	What, what time is it there, ten thirty?	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's nine thirty here.	sd	it was his first book.

qy	PRESUMED INNOCENT?	ny	Yes.

o@	but, Oh.	b	Okay,

qy	Is she is she kind of racy?	nn	No,

^2	Just feel good.	sv	you always cry.

bh	really?	sd	I mean, it's always good for good tears.

sd	my mother in law's a real fan of hers.	sd	it's always going to make you have a good cry

ba	well, that's nice.	sd	I don't want anything too real anymore.

sd	you mentioned Sunday school Ladonna.	b	Uh huh.

qy	are you a BIBLE fan, too?	na	I do my share of it.

sd	I played for about eighteen years, all the way through college, and then, kind of hung them up after college,	sd	I was going to say, you played pro ball,

sd^e	not quite.	b^m	Not quite,

o@	but, Anyway. being in Rochester, you probably like the Mets.	b	Oh.

qy^g	boy, I think it's like one or the other, isn't it. I mean,	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I never quite found a New York fan.

sd	I kind of grew up rooting for Philadelphia.	b	Oh.

sd	I'm from New Jersey originally.	b	Yeah,

o@	so. Yeah,	qy^d	so you were pretty close.

qw	but, so what are the Mets going to do this year without Strawberry?	h	Well, I don't know. there's a part of me that says that, you know, I'm sort of glad Strawberry went away.

b	Yeah.	sd	I think they're okay,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, certainly if you look at them compared to, let's say, you know, eight years ago or something, they're they're, they're, they're, you know, they're sort of in good standing, whereas, you know, I certainly don't think they're the eighty six team any more.

sd	Well, I was going to talk to you about that eighty six team .	b	Yeah,

^g	right.	na^m	Right,

^g	right.	na	That's right,

^2	Well, his knees were bothering him,	b	Right,

^2	for having him out there.	aa	That's right,

b	Sure.	sd	So, I, I was, I was also, I was in school at Boston at the time.

ba	boy.	sd	it was actually wonderful because where I was they were half Met fans and, half Sox fans.

sv	I think we were all pretty much, Astros fans, in the National League Championship Series	b	Oh.

sd	and they were, you know, they were pretty much without having to say, they were pretty much Mets fans .	b	Yeah,

sv	they weren't scared very much, you know .	ba	Well, that's good,

b	Yeah	sv	You don't expect them to be, much of anything but thugs.

b	Really.	b	Yeah,

sd	they're, they're they, they have, I think they have the best facilities in the major leagues.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's great.	sd	actually, I think I make something, because I think,

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, it's good to have,

sd	I think they, when Ryan struck out his five thousandth player, they squeezed about forty thousand people in there.	aa	Yes,

sd	I mean, the owner tried to move them to Florida	b	Right.

sd	and they're going to build a new stadium in Arlington, as a matter of fact, not even in Dallas,	ba	that's great.

sd	So that's something that we're looking forward to.	b	Yeah,

aa	case in point, Toronto.	aa	Yeah,

qy	have you seen a game up there?	ng	I haven't been to any Toronto games yet.

sv	that's probably the pattern for the future of stadiums, I think.	aa^m	Of stadiums, yeah,

qw	where is Cornell University.	sd	Cornell is in Ithaca.

b^m	Ithaca.	b	yeah,

b	Okay.	sd	So if you know where Lake Ontario is sort of.

qy^g	well Rochester is like right on the shores, isn't it?	ny	Yeah,

b	okay.	sv	Actually whoever built the city was an idiot, in my opinion, because they built it far enough from the city that it actually couldn't be a port city.

sv(^q)	Well, they say that from that space needle up in Toronto you can see the lights of Rochester on a clear night.	sd	really, I hadn't actually known that.

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, but we have our own triple A team here

b	Yeah.	sd	the Redwings, which are they're a farm team for the Orioles.

b	Yeah.	sd	So everybody hopes that, they go all the way around here.

qy	you, you watch those games?	ny	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	Lots of really big,

b^r	uh huh.	o	especially,

b	Yeah.	sd	But they really seem to,

sd	but, they were fun games to watch.	sv	those are, I think those are more fun than major league games sometimes.

sv	well, there's definitely a lot more hitting .	aa	Yes,

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, I guess when you start pitching real well, well, move them up. Bam .

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

sd	and then they just haven't been able to put anything together.	sv	Well, the way I see it, is,

b	Uh huh.	sd	If you'll think back a few years to when the Mets were just all this sort of young bunch of guys who really were raw talent but weren't very sort of, well trained

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, back to, you know, maybe eighty, eighty four or eighty three or eighty five, you know, when they weren't quite the eighty six team that, that they were.

b	Right.	sv	that probably gives the readers a good shot for you this year or next year, I think, if, I think, the young talent really just has to build itself up.

sd	and but, it'll be interesting to watch.	aa	Right,

sd	There's several guys from our church try to go up there.	ba	that must be nice.

sd	well, I guess we're maybe a hundred fifty miles south of Dallas.	o@	Well, that isn't too bad. Just a couple of hours.

sd	but it takes about two hours, two and a half hours to get there.	b	Yeah,

sd	We just get right on the freeway and just go north.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, it's so crowded up there.	sv	I mean, I mean, it's almost four hundred,

ba	Golly.	sv	so, it's, it's, you know, it's a heck of a drive.

qw	how far is it across the lake to Canada?	bc	Toronto.

br^m	Toronto?	sd	Toronto's only about two hours,

b	Yeah.	sd	Toronto, I mean, I want to go see.

qrr	or do you take the ferry, or what?	na	I can,

b	Yeah.	sd	Haven't taken it yet, though.

sd^e	it's a beautiful city.	b	Yeah,

qy	and then, I mean, you go back to New York after school?	nn	no,

b	really.	sd	Some place south, and warm,

qw	Well, what kind of weather are you having right now?	sd	right now we're actually having,

sd	we've been up in the, seventies, eighties, even up in the nineties a couple of weeks ago.	ba	that's great.

qy	Because of the ice?	^h	Because it, didn't make the national news too much, which I find really weird

ba	Golly.	sd	There were certain parts of town where it was illegal to drive.

b^m	illegal,	b	Yeah,

ba	yeah.	sd	and so many, things like that,

qy	Golfer?	ny	Well, yes,

sd	but I do enjoy it.	sd	I, haven't been out all year.

sv	I think one of the things I enjoy the most is the beauty of the golf courses.	aa	Yes,

sd	You can get out there,	^2	And the little critters that are around.

sv	You can just get out there and lose yourself in it and forget everything else in the world except what you're seeing out there.	aa	That's right

aa	it really is.	sv	More than competitiveness against someone else.

sd	You can't do anything, right .	sd	Or you'll hear thirty and think, boy I got my game together.

^2@	Boy, I'm improving. . Uh huh	sd	I've had a par and a birdie, and a bogey

ng	I've never been to a major golf tournament.	b	Oh.

sd	I, watch them on T V a lot.	ad	You really should go at least once.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Tulsa

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, it's like a bullet going by.

ba	I'll bet,	sd	And, you know, to see their concentration and yet to see how friendly they are when they're, walk by you, you know, and how good they are to their spectators.

o@	and we have developed a tremendous number of friends that couples do this	b	Yes.

sv	and, you know, it's fun to go on vacations and things and go to golf courses.	aa	Yes,

sv	You can meet some really neat people.	sv	The scrambles are fun.

sd	I just love them.	sd	I belong to the country club there in El Reno when I lived there

b	Uh huh.	sv	on those, you really go out for fun.

aa	That's right.	sd	And, you know, you won't,

sv	And you just do your own thing and be relaxed and enjoy it .	aa	That's right.

bh	Really?	sd	And, now that was very competitive.

bh	Really?	sd	And, I enjoyed it tremendously,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And if it takes one of us ten shots to get up to the green, so be it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, we just think, well, the next time has got to be better .

sd	Now, my husband and all the men, I mean, they love the real competitiveness of playing for money, you know.	b	yes,

sd	But I'm not good enough for that .	qy	Does your club have a good woman's association?

sd	I work during the week all the time.	sv	It's hard to be a weekend golfer and improve your game.

sd	Someday when I get where I live closer to the club and partially retired, maybe I'll, be able to play a little more	sd	it's, it's a, it's a good game.

qy	do you have any experience in, finding child care?	ng	Well, ourselves, we have , I guess never had to look for child care.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Our kids are now fourteen and eighteen.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I guess, we were in a situation where we didn't need to be looking at, two family income at the time .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And our kids were older.

b	Right.	sd	my involvement hasn't been direct

b	Uh huh.	qo	How about yourself?

sd	How many	b	Right.

sd	Then something happens and the adult wouldn't be able to, accommodate or take care of the kids very well.	b	Right.

sd	We, we, take a very close look at finding a preschool, a good preschool for our kid.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's a good way to develop relationships with other kids their age and, get to know and work with kids.	b	Yeah.

sd	We haven't had to look very carefully for child care.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But even, you know, here. I guess we have in one sense two forms of, child care.

b	Uh huh .	sd	And that will be groups of anywhere from one or two to, maybe, seven or eight children.

b	Uh huh .	sd	And then otherwise, there will be

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, at the same time, there's some fairly good training programs and some of them formal two year programs.

b^r	right .	sd	you know, there is some definite, creative play, good social interaction, that kind of thing.

sd	I want to trust the people .	b	Yeah.

sd	And hope that we can stay in this situation for awhile.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's, typically, whether it's been child care in a home or in a larger situation where actually it's more of an institution.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you've actually got children that most people would consider problem children

qy^d	You want to go first .	nn	Well, no

bh	Really?	qo	what about you?

sd	and I wanted to get it back off	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I just found that running really made me feel good.	b	Yeah.

sd	I would rather be outside then in the gym doing this in one place.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I really like that a lot.	qy^d	Well now is that, that's related to the aerobic, ,

sd	but it's with dance steps.	bk	Okay.

sd@	I feel like I'm not just exercising. Because I'm dancing	b	Yeah,

sd	My stamina is getting great for the dance floor	b	Yeah.

sd	there's a lot of positive things with it,	b	Well, okay.

sd	and I just enjoy that much more too than inside.	qy^d	do you like to do it with other people.

sd	We get to spend some time together rather than I go to the gym while she does her homework.	b	Yeah.

sd	Everybody's on their way to someplace	b	Right.

sd	but, basically, I do it by myself in a group of maybe forty	b	Yeah,

sv	It's more motivating that way, I think.	^2	In terms of motivation and incentive,

sv	you probably wouldn't.	b	Yeah.

ny	Yeah.	sd	when I have run and jogged,

sd	I can see it'll be a good break.	sd	the chan , the change of pace and just getting out and around

b	Right.	sd	and I find that I can often, you know,

b	Uh huh	sd	and, also that, my subconscious is working on things while I'm working

sv	I think it's worth making the time for yourself.	b	Yeah.

sv	You owe it to yourself	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think you do accomplish more after that.	b	Yeah.

sd	Now I've learned to do that	b	Yeah.

sv	you know, and I think it just benefits you all around.	b	Yeah,

sd	Because there's always more things to do.	b	Right.

sd	and so you know, I just feel entitled to it	b	Yeah.

sd	and I take it ,	ba	Well good,

sd^e	I've done some walking with friends in the past.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I find that when you do that, you do more chatting than you do exercise	b	Yeah.

sd	so, I don't have time like that	b	Yeah,

sd	You know, my parents are not quite at that age yet,	qy^g	They're not quite elderly, .

sd	but, but that's really about it.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you been in that situation yet?	ng	not for my parents.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that killed him .

bh	Did it really?	ny	Well, yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And he just kind of became a vegetable and died.

by	no.	sd	So but that was a long time ago.

b	Yeah.	sd	That was, back in like seventy three.

bd	okay.	sv	So, I think the way they did things were a lot different back then.

aa	Yeah.	sd	And, my grandmother, his wife we also put her in a rest home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She was in a rest home

b	Ah.	sd	and so she was able to come back home

b	Yeah.	sd	and then } she had to go back in a couple of times,

b	Oh.	sd	but mostly it was just because she kind of gave up.

b	Yeah.	sd	So I guess as far as looking,

sv	And I'm sure it's expensive.	aa	it is .

b	Yeah.	sv^m	It is expensive.

sd	but she's in a	b	Uh huh.

sd	they're apartments for senior citizens	b	uh huh.

sd	and she loves that because they arrange activities for them all day long	b	Uh huh.

sd@	but she's just concerned about in the future, you know. That, she knows it's not going to be like that all the time.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And she's just wondering well what's going to happen to me	^2	When she can't take care of herself.

qy	but you know	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	she's kind of asking questions about well what's going to happen, this can't last forever	b	Uh huh.

ny	Yeah.	qrr	or she can go down to the cafeteria?

sd@	but I think it is also cafeteria style. Because I really, I, I, I doubt if she rarely cooks for herself. So,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I'm assuming it's something like that too.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they have well quite a few of those places like that here in Utah

b^r	yeah.	sv	I think it really takes, you know, looking more at the people than even really the facilities.

sd	She seems to like it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I mean, she's got her mother in town too and things like that	b	Yeah.

o@	so. Hopefully, we won't need to go that route .	b	Yes.

b	Yeah	sv	they wanted to do things.

qw	well, what's your opinion about capital punishment?	sv	Well, Cathy, I think that, capital punishment certainly has a place in our society, maybe from the sense that there are some things that we just can't afford to have repeated, even in the remote chance of repetition.

sv	Maybe spend the money on someone who could possibly be helped.	aap	That might be true,

b	Right.	qy	do we say that every one who commits murder in the first degree is liable for capital punishment if that's what the jury decides is an appropriate punishment for their crime,

br^m	beyond murder or just beyond like first degree murder?	no	Well, either, you know.

sv^r	and, it's gets into a pretty sticky issue.	aa	Yes,

b	Right.	sv	you know, if we lived in a different country, then murder is not so bad.

b	Yeah.	sv	But over here, where we're promised the civil liberties of life, liberty and pursuit of happiness, then taking that away is a heinous act.

qy	Are there some set guidelines, like only under these circumstances?	h	I don't know.

sv	Those were the only two circumstances where you could give someone the death penalty, which I think is a little too limited.	aa	I tend to agree with you there.

b	Uh huh.	sv	these people had a choice of committing this crime, that involves the taking of another's life or the altering of someone's life such as rape, deserves punishment by death.

b	Yeah.	sd	But then I'm also told that I'm a pretty harsh person.

sv	they ruin someone else's life.	b	All right,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, that second group of people falls into the group that I say give up their rights,

bf@	he didn't go out with the intent of hurting someone else. Or with no regard for someone else's well being.	aa	That's right

qy	Would you consider, capital punishment for them?	sv	I think I would probably lower the age to about fourteen.

b	Uh huh.	h	and I certainly don't know myself,

^2	what age they're accountable, for their actions.	qy@	You know, I have an eighteen year old,

qw	what kind of house do you live in?	sd	we live in a one story, just like a style home, you know, the standard Texas, Fox and Jacobs.

qy^d	With, with a yard and fence.	qo	How about you guys?

sd	I'm in an apartment in, Plano.	sv	Well, they say those are or difficult to find.

sd	Mine's just a one bedroom place,	qw	How are rents doing?

sd	it's hard for me to tell, because I haven't rented in, probably twenty, twenty five years	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm getting back into apartment life,	qw	what's a one bedroom,

ny	Yeah,	sd	well, Plano,

sd	it's hard to tell, you know, how well they've been kept up how old they are,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, they're almost five hundred a month for a one bedroom place.	ba	 that does get high,

sd	it does, considering that, you know, house payments are, not a whole lot more than that,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	so that's really not,

ba	Wow, that's a lot for a townhouse.	sd	actually they're near Plano in North Dallas too,

sv	But that's what happens when you get up in this area, you know, you got all these companies are up here,	b	Yeah.

sv	and, I guess they know they're going to get it,	sv	And then I think that, nobody was really buying houses there for a long time there because of just,

sd	and that's about it,	aa^m	that's really about it,

sd^e	I've owned, several, built several,	qw^d	So you know what it's like,

sv	Well and especially around North Dallas, or at least in Plano area, they basically all look alike because Fox and Jacobs,	b	Yeah,

sd	I used to live in Wylie	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's moving north.	b	Yeah,

ny	yeah.	sv	You know, I used to think that Dallas was better than Houston because their zoning for where you can put a house next to a,

b	Yeah,	sv	now it looks just like Houston to me.

qw	How long have you been in this house?	sd	We've been in here ten years.

b^m	Ten years.	b	Yeah,

qy	you said you were out of state for a while, was that a smaller town than Dallas area.	ny	Yeah,

qw	How was it	sd	My home town.

qw	how were the house prices up there?	sd	The prices, actually, a lot better, because Pittsburgh is about the size, I've been trying to think, like a Louisville, or Minneapolis, that type of size.

b	Yeah.	sd	And the prices, what you get here for about a hundred thousand you could get there for about seventy five, eighty.

ba	Wow.	b	Yeah,

sd	well, you know, a lot of these people that I've talked to that are coming down from, like what I call, the back East especially from J C Penney, are selling two and three hundred thousand dollar houses up there and buying a hundred and fifty, hundred and seventy five thousand dollar houses down here,	b	Yeah,

sv	so in a way, I guess it works both ways.	sv	and here I guess it depends on what you want,

b	Yeah.	sv	and a lot of the people that came from that area, probably like what you're talking about, they had a lot of property but not a lot of house,

aa	That's a fact,	sv	but they love it.

aa	I guess that's true.	b	Yeah.

sv	And they don't have to worry about yard upkeep if they don't hardly have any.	b	Yeah,

sd	not too many basements in Texas.	sd	And I said, You haven't heard about tornados .

sd	I grew up in southern Oklahoma	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I to this day, I don't care if I go or not,	b	Yep.

sv	you know, if it's going to get me, it's get me.	aa	That's exactly,

b	Yeah.	sv	but, the housing is just,

qy	You ever thought about building a house?	br	Pardon me?

qy^r	Have you ever thought about building a house?	ny	Yeah,

sv	with T I it's like anybody else, you never know how long you're going to be in one place, you know,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, it's,

qy	Do you work?	br	Pardon me?

qy^r	Do you work?	ny	Yes,

qy	do you have kids?	nn	No,

qw	how do you manage both of those?	^h	how do we take care of the house.

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't have,

qy^d	You basically can take care of everything yourself,	sd	We have a,

qy	do you have to do all that yourself,	nn	no,

aa	you too.	sd	we pretty much hire,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, I know how to fix a running toilet

b	yeah.	sd	he does what he needs to,

sv	Sounds like you've already got the makings for being a general contractor,	aa	Yeah,

sv	If you don't wall paper it well together, you should probably not build a house together.	qy	Have you ever done that,

o@	and, they,	qo	And how'd that go?

sd	the building process was a lot of fun	b	Uh huh.

sd	but puts a lot of strain on things.	sd	Getting to agree to things, I'm sure,

b	Yeah.	sv	the dollar value on things I,

aa	You bet.	sv	you know, I think people that own homes a lot in North Dallas are very materialistic.

aa	you bet.	sd^t	I know I'm supposed to talk about homes,

sv	Well, to some of them I guess it doesn't matter, you know, that maybe they've got enough coming in to take care of it,	b	Yeah,

sv	you know, they've got it made,	aa	Right,

sd	I came out of a thirty one hundred square foot two story house.	ba	my goodness

h	I don't know	b	Uh huh.

o@	but  Yeah,	b	Yeah.

sv	you know, you lear , you adjust, you figure out,	qw	how is apartment dwelling living in terms of general privacy and noise and things like that?

sd	It's not as bad as I thought it was	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's not as bad as I remembered, especially going to college and living in apartments there, you know how noisy that can be.	aa	Yes,

sd	but still,	qy^d	Everybody pretty much keeps , keeps to their own turf, so to speak.

sd	seem like there was a fight or a party or something going on every night	b	Yeah.

sd	You don't run into that up here, I think because there's so many, professional people, if you want to call them that that go spend all day at work	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they want some quiet,	bf	Relax and try to go to sleep,

sd	and they're trying to unwind.	sv	I think Plano in general is getting a little more,

sd	it's a hundred and what, eighty thousand, something like that.	b^m	Or something,

b	yeah.	sv	so it's an investment,

sv	and, you're always paying for something.	aa	Yeah,

sd	my home is about fifteen years old.	b	All right.

sd	they have scraped the, plaster off the walls, you know, with riding their little toys through it and stuff. You know,	b	Yes.

sd	I don't know what they,	bf	We talking from dents in the holes.

b	right.	ba	I understand,

sd	but, you know, they're just real hard on it.	sv	Kids are hard on houses.

sv	and then they get another one.	b	Yeah,

sd	I know there's a lot of them.	sd	what we have,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, seems like we're always working on it, as I'm sure, it is with your house.

sv	Because they're always, because they're always ruining something?	b	Yeah.

qw	How old is your child?	sd	Ten,

qr	Some appliances breaking or something?	nn	No,

qy^d	And you said you were in Colorado Springs?	ny	Yes.

qy	Are there a lot of trailers around there?	ny	Yeah,

qy	And is that what you're in?	nn	no,

qy^g^t	Well, then that's why you're doing this then, isn't it?	ny	yes.

bk	okay,	qw	What division are you in?

sd	I'm not in T I.	b	Oh.

sd^t	and she saw this come up on the computer screen, and ran it off. And passed it to the people that were interested.	sv^t	It's not a hobby, you know,

sd^t	I know, I've been talking to people in Ohio, and, Virginia, and I think, California.	qy^g^t	It's interesting, isn't it?

sd^e^t	it is.	sd^t	You know, the gal I talked to in Maryland, didn't own a car,

qw	How does she get to work?	sd	she, lives on campus,

b	Uh huh.	sd	her parents live by the public transportation.

sv	and I wish we could down here.	aa	Well, it would be nice

sd	and then they'd drive me to the main terminal here,	b	Right.

sd	then, I'd have to go to downtown Dallas and then walk over couple blocks and get on another bus to go to my school.	sv	If it's anything like,

bf	So that's too much.	sv	Dallas always has been,

sd	but there sure are a lot of people that work down there.	qy	Is the crime rate still bad?

o@	and, beer and wine bottles all over the place.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, Garland, how nice is it now,

sd	It's gotten big.	aa	Yes,

sd	And I didn't realize, when I moved here, that it was a separate town from Dallas .	b	Well, yeah,

sd	but I didn't.	qw	Where you from?

sd	it's in east,	b^m	Kilgore,

qw	where you from?	sd	I'm originally from Lubbock.

qy	Are you?	ny	Yeah.

qw	So, why did you move up to Colorado?	sd	Seemed like the thing to do at the time.

sd	I have a friend, in Denver.	sd	I love it, the mountains.

qw	What do you,	ad	back to the topic,

br	What?	sv	it seems that, more and more people are not owning traditional homes these days.

sv	They're not owning homes, period.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But now it seems that, with the local economy bad and T I

^2	It wasn't such a bad idea?	sv	they're doing some back pedaling.

qy	So, have you got, land?	nn	No,

sd	so, we took turns, you know, sharing the bedroom.	ba	Gosh.

sd	it was just, the little bathroom, were the thing that really bothered me because I felt real closed in.	sv	Well, mobile homes have changed a lot probably since you had one.

sd	That was in the seventies.	sd	ours is wood sided,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it has a traditional V top , roof,

fa	I'm sorry.	sd	and, it's nine hundred and eighty square foot.

ny	Uh huh.	sd	Well, you can imagine nine hundred eighty square foot broke up into two bedrooms, one bath,

qy	So have, Have you got it under ?	sd	it's comfy.

qy	Are you required to by law?	o@	I, don't know whether it is or not.

sd	We were down here.	sd	It was already setup when we bought it.

sv	well, I bet it's not bad.	b	yeah,

sd	When we bought ours we were paying three hundred twenty nine dollars.	sd	our payments are like two twenty.

qw	For how many years?	sd	Fifteen.

sv	so, it was still a lot cheaper,	br	And, what?

sd	and we bought one of the cheapest houses, you know, a tract house.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	Which probably didn't make much difference.	sd^e	it did.

qy	have a in it.	nn	No,

ba	That sounds good.	sd	So, you know, there's not that much time left on the loan

qy	So, if the economy gets better, are you going to get another house?	h	I, don't know.

^g	No?	ng	to tell you the truth right now it feels kind of comfy to have our mobile home and have it so close to paid for.

^g	right?	na	Sure.

qy^d	You would?	na	Sure,

qy^d	It would be cheaper to move that than buy another one.	na	absolutely.

qy	T I would pay to move you?	h	I don't know

qw	So, how many years you been up there?	sd	six or seven.

qy	Do you snow ski?	na	a little bit,

sd	I went rock climbing one time.	ba	that's exciting.

sv	I really can't disagree with it.	sv	the policy that T I has, I think is, very fair.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they first had a policy where they, would test new employees

sv	I think that's really the only fair way to do it.	aa	Yes.

sv	you know, Junkins all the way down.	aa	And it is,

sd	I've been retired from T I about a year,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess it had been going on, maybe almost a year, before I retired,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think random is probably, you know, the only really fair way to do it.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, and, you know, I saw,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, I know my friends who were you know, druggies and, friends who weren't

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, and, you know, I think it's a real problem,

aa	absolutely.	sv	and I think it's causing us a lot of trouble and, and a lot of problems.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so I'm hoping that, a lot of other companies will follow the same path.

qy^g	I don't think they'll have much choice, do you?	ng	probably not.

sv	As matter of fact, I want to believe that the, defense department more or less mandated that people, you know, who work on defense contracts, you know, do some sort of, you know, drug testing.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I want to think maybe they, you know, really got some nudging from, you know, D O D to do this sort of thing.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	So you know the atmosphere, then.	ny	Yep.

b	So, yeah.	sd^e	Very aware of it.

aa	I agree.	sv	I mean, I'd like to know that my child's being taught by a teacher who's not on drugs or, or, who might be at a point where they're trying to sell my kid drugs.

sd	I just can't disagree with you , with you know the basic premise.	b	Yeah.

sv	as far as I know, it's, you know, seems to be a fairly accurate program, as far as, you know, the testing goes.	sv	And, I like the idea that they have a, system where they allow you to, be retested if for, some reason there may have been a problem. or something did show up.

^2	And offer you, you know, help if you need help.	b	Yeah,

aa@	I do too. Put you out on the street.	b	Yeah,

aa	That's right.	sv	That's not going to help anybody get over the problem.

aa	ab ,	sv	I believe it is a, a medical problem.

aa	That's right.	sv	of course I also think smoking is the most addictive thing in the world, too .

sv	Not to mention alcohol.	b	Yeah,

b^r	yep.	sv	I'm just glad that they, decided not to, tax drugs, otherwise they'd be legal,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they'd be getting tax money off it the same way, they are the alcohol and tobacco .

sd^r	I'm sure.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I moved to a T I facility that, had never had, random drug sampling before, because they were outside of the military sector.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was, an industrial company, you know, that T I purchased,

b	uh huh.	sd^r	they were really opposed to it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, there was a few of them that obviously were doing drugs,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that's why they were opposed to it.

aa	That's right.	sd	And, it resulted in a few people leaving, you know, because they just flat out weren't going to put up with the policy.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, they had a life style

sv	But a lot of people, I think, after they thought about it for awhile, and you know, weighed the pros and cons, decided, you know, it's really not a bad idea unless you're doing drugs, of course.	b	Yeah.

aa	That's right.	qh	I mean, you know, why do I need my eyes checked,

aa^r	yep.	qh	You know it's like, why are we doing this?

^2	Or yourself	sv	I mean, it's the basic premise with, you know, drug testing.

aa	That's right.	sv	Especially some of the jobs,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's very little that anyone could do in the engineering sector as far as, you know, hurting someone, I mean,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's hard to imagine somebody misusing a computer and somebody dying from it,

aa	That's true.	sv	But, in the manufacturing sectors and over in semiconductor, and down in some of those labs and stuff, yeah, darn if I'd want somebody down there that I'm working with side by side, you know, that could kill me, by doing something incorrectly because they were not exactly all there because they were on drugs.

aa	absolutely.	sv	So, there's a lot of sectors where I think that would, would help out,

aa	yeah.	sv	you know, if you're not working with someone on drugs, well then you're going to have less accidents,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you have less accidents

b	Uh huh.	sv	And you spend less money on medical, then the company's more profitable.

b	Yeah.	sv^r	The company's more profitable, then maybe they can pay you more.

b	right .	sv	If they can pay you more, you can buy more,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it goes around, you know, to everywhere.

bf	trickles up and down.	b	Yep,

sv	affects a lot of people.	aa	It certainly does

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and, and start it up.

sd	I'm not sure every small company could do it.	sd	Well, a lot of companies are, coming down in price,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think that the insurance companies are starting to give, benefits.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, reduction in medical costs if, you know, they,

sv	it's got to help them too.	b	Yeah,

aa	that's right.	sv(^q)	And I think if a lot more insurance companies get on the bandwagon and say, well if you impose, mandatory drug testing, we'll reduce your insurance costs by, you know, twenty per cent.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And of course, you know, the company's not going to reduce the employee's cost of insurance twenty per cent, they're going to reduce their own.

b	right.	b	Yeah,

sd	That's a very very, very competitive business.	b	Yeah.

sd	I just really can't disagree with you.	b	Yeah.

fc	well, it's nice to talk to you.	fc^m	It was great talking with you.

fc	And you take care.	fc	You do the same.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

o	Okay	qw	First how much television watching do you do?

sd	I do a little bit more than I think usual people do because I am here alone during the day,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I like it just for the noise .	b	That's right,

^h	it just depends on what it is.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, I have my favorite things that I do,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and then some fun thing to do sometime.	b	Right.

qo	what about you?	^h	Well, actually, I work full time

b	Right.	sd	If there's something that I absolutely want to watch I will turn it on and watch it and then turn it off.

ba	Well see that's great,	sd	if I do not find something that I really want or really want to watch, well, then I just do not turn it on.

b	Right.	sv	Part of it is that, I think we need to be very selective about the kinds of things that come to us on a subliminal basis

aap	Well, I think that's partially true, too.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think you have to have the will and the,	aa	right,

o@	But, anyway, what would you watch, if you had, you know, this week to watch?	b@	 I,

qy	Do you like specials?	na	Well, last night, for example, I really would have liked to have watched UNSOLVED MYSTERIES.

b	Oh.	sd	If I have the opportunity, I watch it.

b	Oh .	sd	I hate that.

b	yeah.	sd	In our comedy programs, although,

sd	Well, we have cable also,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and sometimes you can, get the H B O specials,	o@	That's right, and some of those are fine programs.

sv	and sometimes those are really, pretty hysterical.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I like to watch comedy,	b	Uh huh.

o@	But, I am not, real up to date on what's going on now,	sd	I enjoy comedy.

o@	but I am, hooked on, you know like	b	Uh huh.

sd	Bob Newhart is still on.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I watch him.	aa	I enjoy that,

sd	And, you know, something on that level,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I watch a lot, of Thirteen, THE MCLAUGHLIN GROUP,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and I, I just laugh,	b	That's right.

sv	I mean, I think that's so hysterical, these guys.	b	Uh huh

sd	it's just a lot of fun, watching that.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	but it's fun. You know,	b	Right.

sd	I really do .	b	Yeah.

ba	now that was fabulous,	aa^m	and it was fabulous.

qy	and that, you know,	sd	I was just absolutely,

b	Yeah.	sv	you just held you breath, in some of those.

b	Yeah.	sd	I was just,

ba	I know.	sd	I may or may not even look at the T V guide,

o@	and, you know, if there's something like cooking shows.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I really do.	aa	I do too,

ba	I know ,	sd	and then I eat,

sd	in fact, one of the water color shows, I know, has inspired me to take water color lessons, you know.	sd	I think that's, marvelous.

o@	So, you know, things like that, you get, a whole lot of exposure.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	it's very successful for some of, those things,

b	Oh.	sv	but I think I really got stung very badly about having influence in your life,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I want you to know that became the most suspicious, cantankerous, contrary old woman ever walked.

bf	She got you a .	aa	Absolutely,

b	Yeah.	sd	And for her to miss a soap, it was a big withdrawal.

sv	But she was probably depressed to begin with.	h	Well, I do not know.

qy	You know what I mean?	sd	Well, she was grumpy to begin with.

b^m	grumpy to begin with.	sv	There's no doubt about that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know that one day, my youngsters were watching THE THREE STOOGES,

sd	I hate that show .	sd	but when one tries to lift the other one up with a pipe wrench, I decided that was not funny, any more.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, I really, I really feel very strong about the BART SIMPSON SHOW.

ba	Good.	sv	I think that is,

qw	How old are your kids?	sd	Mine are grown,

b	Yeah.	sv	and, for a four year old to think Bart Simpson is a hero is tragic .

o@	and, so } I do not have you know, I, that influence, of the kids shows and all that,	b	Uh huh.

h	but, I don't know.	sd	Well, I was very careful even when my kids were, kids were at home.

b	Yeah.	sd	And when they were young I really did, watch what they watched.

b	Right.	sd@	you know, I distracted them, changed their interest. Because I just could not tolerate that kind of influence on the kiddos.

sv	anyway, so you might as well not, reinforce it , you know.	b	Sure.

o@	and of course, we did not have any of the variety, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	kids but, all the watch RAWHIDE and all those shows.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I could watch YOGI BEAR, you know,	b	Uh huh.

qh	what kind of culture was that ?	b	Yeah

sd(^q)	and everybody would be asking, did you see that, did you see how he did that	b	Uh huh

sd	and I could never participate.	b	Uh huh.

qy	like I, you know,	na	Sure,

sv@	I think then you have to replace it with other things. You know,	aa	Absolutely,

b	Really.	sd	maybe we need to go outside,

b	Yeah.	sd	and we need to go out and play and enjoy some company.

^q	Or, you go rent a video up at, the store and come home and sit down and watch it.	b	Yeah.

sd	I have got to stick in my ,	b	Of course,

o	Okay Jerry.	o	Ok ,

sd^t	I guess, tonight's topic is about, personal computers and level of interest and your expertise.	b	Oops .

b^r	well.	b	Well, okay,

qy^t	you want me to start off?	ny	Yeah,

qo	How about yourself?	sd	well, I guess since this time last year I've changed, jobs within the firm I'm with

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I now am learning to be a sys admin on, not only P C s, but, professional work stations as well.

ba	All right.	sd	And these are the big mamas, i. e. sons, Hewlett Packards, the big Solburns and so forth.

b	Yeah.	sd	and, we have, two P C s here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so we got one that, that could do enough, and, you know, hold three different O S s. As far as DOS, UNIX, and, O S Two.

b	yes.	sd	So, I get to see all kinds of different applications.

sv	Sounds like you're an expert at it, too.	bd	No,

b	Yes.	qh	but, expert,

ba	Well, that's great, be ,	b	And, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we have two P C s here at home.

b	Right.	sd	a lot of the, the new mama we're,

sd	We do an awful lot of that, too with ours.	sd	I, I've found that, the more we do with it,

aa	Definitely agree with that.	sv(^q)	So, rather than being niggardly and, chintzy, we've just said, you bet, boss, seeing as he was the one that, enabled us to get the money to buy the Four Eighty Six.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because the top of the line we've got,

qy	that's a Four Eighty Six processor, too?	ny	Uh huh,

ba	Wow .	sd	Like I said we bought a real steam burner. mainly because of spouse's UNIX because UNIX takes a, a well, four megs minimum of RAM

^2	of RAM.	sd	and then, it, it likes to live on about a hundred and fifty megabyte hard drive.

b	Right .	sd	So the next size up was a Two Hundred and Eleven

b	okay.	sd	And, speak of the angel, she just walked in .

sd	Well, good for her .	t3	T I stuff .

qy^d	You say she's a programmer also.	ny	Yeah,

o	Okay.	o	Okay.

sd	I get my current events basically from news, just because I watch, pretty much a lot of television,	^2	Television news?

sd	I like to tune to C N N because, you know, you can tune in like any time of day and pretty much get the update on, everything, in about five or ten minutes.	b	Right.

sd	Like in, on radio, if you hear any news at all, it's like two seconds.	b	Right.

sd	You know, really quickly, on regular stations.	sd	on commercial radio, I guess, I tend to get more of my news from national public radio of the morning on the way to work, or evening on the way to school

b	uh huh.	sd	so, So, I don't, I don't see much T V mostly when I'm in school,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I do here.

qw	where do you go to school?	sd	University of Texas at Dallas.

sd	I went to U T at Austin.	b	Right.

sd	so I should get all , my news from the T V.	b	Really.

sd	I usually don't intentionally. Although I don't intentionally turn on the television to watch news.	b	Right.

sd	Now, I will intentionally buy a newspaper to, to look at the news.	b	Yeah,

sd	That's about it.	sd^m	That's about it,

sv	and the rest, you throw away.	b	Right.

sd	Although you paid, what, almost two dollars now to get it	sd	I like to listen to, national public radio on the way to work because I don't know, it's variety,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It tends to get like HEADLINE NEWS if you listen to it for an hour .

qy	is it pretty good coverage on there?	ny	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd	and they present different sides of things.

sd	but each story is like no more than two or three lines, you know.	sd	well they spend a little more time, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	and then they go into a lot of the issues and things where they spend five or ten minutes discussing something and, interviewing people.

sv	Especially when you look for the, like, popular radio stations like mostly the music stations, news is pretty much nonexistent.	b	Yeah.

sv	They have little, teeny weeny news, breaks, you know.	b	Yeah,

sd	basically.	sd	I haven't listened to a top forty radio station in so long I wouldn't know.

^h	So let's see,	sd	And I guess I get some kinds of other, you know, business related news through trade journals and things

sd@	The only reason I get trade journals is like if I'm looking for a job or something . Which is what I'm doing now.	b	Right .

sv	first you go to C N N, then you go to radio or something like that.	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd	it takes a lot more time to read something,

b	Yeah.	sd	and you've got news, bombarding you from everywhere now.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know you, turn on the T V, turn on the radio.

sv	But I think that soon the paper may be kind of the only source again.	qw	Why is that?

sd	And then on television, you have just the news at six and ten.	b	Yeah,

sv	And I just see that dwindling in,	sv	I find it hard to believe that people will go back to reading over television, I mean, just given the way society is.

^2	Than sit down and take the effort to read the paper.	aa	Right.

sv	That's all you have time for.	b	Right.

sd@	and every point they make, you know. and it's all there.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they give you headlines that are brief,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	And it's informative.

sd	I mean it's like each story is thirty seconds, you know.	b	Right.

h	I don't know.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Communication, you know, expands the world now.

b	yeah.	sv	There's too much going on.

sd	and we saw it during the war just now, is that we got all the information within minutes, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	Whatever happened, we knew about it about the same time that they knew about it.	qh	And the question is, or how, some of it,

b	Uh huh.	qh	is it the true story

sv	Because even though we do get the story right away, they were censored as to what they could tell us.	b	Right.

sd	And she didn't know what was happening at that time.	b	Right.

sd	So there's just a lot of different opinions on that.	sd	I, you know, I like to know what's going on.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know you get in the habit of, like I say, turn on Headline News

sv	And then, too, a lot of times I think, especially on television they blow things completely out of proportion.	aa	Yeah,

sd	You know, like this Kennedy thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	And you know, it's just like, okay, this is ridiculous.	qh	Like who cares?

qy	Sitting on a computer?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I heard the little clicking.	sd^e	Trying to do some C programming.

fc	Well, it was nice talking to you.	fc	Okay .

fc^m	Okay.	fc	Take care.

fc^m	Take care.	fc	Bye bye.

ad^t	we can, be recorded while we talk about it.	aa	Okay,

qy	Cities have a mandatory recycling?	na	there're some places that are strongly encouraging it,

sd	We got like a penny a pound for them.	sd	Well, it turns out that so much,

ba	my,	sd	it requires essentially a paper mill to recycle it,

sv	you know, in the large city that if the next mill is more like five hundred miles away it's a lot of money to transport.	b	Yeah,

sv	Even aluminum,	qy	Well, do you do recycling?

sd	and our city will pick up our recyclables.	b	Oh.

sd	my trash has a lot of tin cans and a lot of different papers and cardboards.	qy	Well, do you drink soda and such in aluminum cans?

sd	We've had five cent deposits on our bottles for years.	bf	so it's worth taking them back.

sv	and it's great for the boy scouts running around, they knock door to door and the collect the bottles sometimes.	sd	that's it,

b	Yeah.	sd	In fact I almost went to work for them.

ba	I see that.	sd	But, it's an interesting point, though, that, you know, everybody's so anxious to recycle,

^2	But it takes away employment from the resource	sv	Well, but in general I think it's a good idea because like the glass, you can't argue that the glass,

aa	I do, too.	sd	it doesn't biodegrade, and, the plastics obviously,

sd	They don't either	sv	So we might as well recycle those.

sd	I don't want to clean the can and take the label off it, and put it in a separate bin.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, I'd just rather get rid of that thing and throw it in the trash.	sd	Well, that's what we've got.

sd	but I don't see so much that I can recycle.	b	Yeah.

h	so, I don't know.	sv	But every little bit helps,

sv	Instead of carrying your newspapers, when they get done with them at the end of the day, they throw them in the trash.	qy	Well, do you have separate trash cans at your desk.

sd	They have a box for papers.	sd	Well, we have one that's recyclable and then for lunch sacks and waste food

b	Yeah.	sd	and, one day they'll pick up,

b	Oh.	sd	Depending on how much,

sd	Well, that's a really good idea, because, like our, fruit juices for some reason when they're in a can don't come with a deposit.	b	Yeah.

sv	And they're thinking about putting a deposit on them, because you're having a whole separate recyclable bin just for these fruit cans, where they're so much easier just to put a deposit on it, because probably ninety percent of the aluminum cans do have deposits, because they're beer and soda,	b	Yeah,

sd	So, it's a strange.	sd	That's an interesting distinction.

sd	It wouldn't take them much to put a stamp on the, juice cans as easily as the soda.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think they either get a penny or two pennies a can.	sd	Well, see, well, see, those of us that don't have state income taxes,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, it's interesting what people get upset about,

qy	is bottle return down there a heated debate?	nn	Well, no,

"	well, here you can't drink,	sd	We're not civilized now, you cannot drink beer and drive,

sv	and, their problem's already solved because they can just come to states that do have bottle deposits see how they handle it,	b	Yeah.

sd	and then do it that way. Because, like I say, people are making money on it.	sv	Well, you know, the other, Well the other thing is, it also is a, is a good habit, to, just to conserve resources, you know, you know, because you get in the habit of that, you think in terms of, of, of things like saving

qo	so what do you think of the Giants?	sd	I like the Giants.

b	Yeah.	sd	so, but I just like the Giants.

qh	wasn't that something of him.	ny	Yeah,

sd	really proud of him though, the way he's, you know.	^2	The way he handled that entire situation, there.

aa	really, you know.	sd	But, I just think the Giants have a good team.

sd	I just don't understand why they're not right up there on the top you know.	b	Yeah,

sd	I had been to more games at the A s than I have in the Giants because, I lived in Oakland you know, for some time.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, I still like the Giants, though, you know .	b	Yeah,

b	right.	sd	but. it's kind of hard.

b	Uh huh.	sd	about the most baseball we get is either T V or we play it on Nintendo.

sd	Well, I prefer football over baseball,	b	Yeah.

o@	but, Yeah,	aa	Yeah,

bf	So, hot dogs, baseball and apple pie.	aa	Yeah,

qw	So what do you think is going to happen this year to the teams?	h	I don't know, it's hard to say.

ba	I know.	sv	but, like I say, if they can get that one element that they were missing, I think the Giants can do it.

b	Yeah,	sd	I don't really know about the A s.

^2	makes you sick, doesn't it?	aa	Yeah.

ny	Yes.	sd	He ramming his wife's car,

sv	He's like a little bitty kid,	aa	Yeah,

sd	well, I guess the Giants might move away from San Francisco, it sounds like.	b	Yeah,

sd	but San Francisco will be hurting, anyhow.	b	Yeah,

qy	You know.	sd	But I hope they can do good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they probably just need something to push them because that's the only thing I can see that's holding them back, is the ambition to do it.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	Or somebody basically,

qh	I know, isn't that something	ny	Yeah,

sd	I couldn't believe that,	sd	so, he had his year this year,

b	Yeah,	sd	we, we got into that a whole bunch.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	that was a series to remember, for sure.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I saw all seven games of that,

sd	I couldn't believe that, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	That would drive you up a wall.	b	Yeah

qy	You know.	sd	I can't figure out why.

aa	well, you're right .	qh	so, why keep on doing something that didn't work,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	Well, baseball's baseball.

b	right.	sd^t	I don't know, it's kind of odd they pick,

qy	So, the topic is vacations?	na	Alright,

sd	I enjoy them.	qw	Where did you go on your last vacation?

sd	the last was back down to Lubbock to visit parents.	br	What?

sd	The last one was back down to Lubbock, Texas, to visit family.	b	Uh huh,

sd	But that's not the tradition for us.	b	yeah.

sd	we enjoyed Yellow Stone real well last year.	bh	Really?

b	Yeah.	qw	What kind of, vacation spots are there in Colorado?

sd	Rocky Mountain National Park.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, there's camping and fishing and hiking and wildlife watching	sd	I think my parents took me there when I was real young.

sd	we usually try and drive up there, once every year or two.	qy	You drive by yourself up there?

na	Sure.	ba	wow.

na^r	sure.	sv	that's tough.

sd	it's a beautiful drive.	b	Oh.

sv	Now I admit up there, the altitude is kind of interesting,	b	Yeah,

sd	but it's fun. You know, take along a picnic lunch	sd	Sure is pretty up there.

sd	we love it.	qy	You have mountains all around you?

sd^e@	they're only I mean to the west of us. Here in the Springs,	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, and once a week we drive up into the mountains, you know, usually once a week, once every other week.	ba	Wow,

sd	I've been in Sherman.	qy@	Have you ever been out of the United States for, vacation? Or business?

sd^e	but just a little day thing on business.	b	Uh huh.

ba	that's nice.	sd	It was really neat,

qy	Did you enjoy it?	br	What?

qy^r	Did you enjoy it?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was really pretty down there.

bf	got to eat some different kinds of foods and meet people from a different culture	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh.	sd	and they had never been to the United States,

b	Huh.	sd	They had been to Disneyland,

sd	So the place that we've gone on vacation that I think I enjoyed the most, was Seattle.	b	Uh huh.

sd	was, two years ago, we went during the drought.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It had been dry for a whole week.	ba	wow.

sd	It didn't rain for a whole week.	b	Yeah

sd	and I think we ate seafood every meal for, well, not quite every meal, but most meals for a week.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's very interesting.	br^m	Pacific Science?

ny	Yeah.	bh	Really?

sd	and, went to the Seattle Aquarium.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you walk down in a dome, a glass dome,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you, and you can watch the fish swim by and sharks	ba	wow.

sd	and then there's walrus and sea lion and porpoises, and it's, it's amazing.	qy^g	That's the vacation you recommend,

na	absolutely.	b	Yeah.

sv	and the mountains, the mountains to the east of Seattle, are just incredible.	b	Yeah,

sd	I rode a ferry for the first time in my life.	ba	wow.

sd	You know, up there, you go from the mainland to a whole bunch of islands around there by ferry, Instead of by bridge.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you have a beer, or coffee, or whatever, depending on the time of day.	b@	Oh. Uh huh.

sd	It's amazing.	qy	And your car is on a ferry?

ny	Yes.	qy	And it goes across with you?

ny	Yes.	ba	That's really neat.

sd	And there are people, literally that everyday, take the ferry, you know, and drive, on to it,	^2	To work?

sd	live on an island off shore from Seattle.	ba	That's really wild.

sd	They go upstairs and have their morning coffee.	b	Huh.

sd	Take, for the twenty to, hour and ten minutes that it takes to get across and, you know, depending on where it is.	br^m	Hour and ten minutes?

sd	Well, in some places, you know, in some areas, you know, depends on how far they are commuting.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm a West Texan.	b	Uh huh.

sv@	Out there in the land of no water. And, to think that people live on the water daily, is kind of odd to me.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, it's a different life style than we are used to.	b	Yeah,

sd	Galveston.	br^m	Galveston?

sd	I forget the name of the island,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it's a bird sanctuary, with all kinds of wild birds. Whooping and sand hill cranes, and ducks and pelicans	b	Uh huh.

sd@	I like the Rio Grande Valley. Real well.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Of course, you haven't lived until you have been to San Antone, to the, to the Alamo.	b	Yeah.

sd	the river walk.	b	Yeah.

sd	it's just simply beautiful.	sd	I've heard it's really pretty.

sd	And, of course, always when I lived in West Texas, had to annually go down to San Antone just,	bh	Really?

o@	and. * should be slash unit El Paso is kind of neat in kind of a funny way. / * should be slash unit	b	Yeah

sd	the Davis Mountains are interesting, out there in West Texas.	b	Uh huh.

sv	now the right time of year to go there is in the middle of winter, because, there's a beauty to the desert that it can best be appreciated when you are not burning up.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know, whenever you've been kind of cold where you are at. It's most enjoyable, you know, to get warm.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I love the Texas Hill Country.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, Austin is neat for an occasional visit.	sd	I've heard to go to Austin too.

sd	it's a fun few days.	qw	What's there to see in Austin?

sd	U T is real pretty.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I guess I like a variety of restaurants.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and sometimes I enjoy it's, I enjoy going out having a formal meal.	b	Yes.

sd	And, sometimes it's nice to go out and have a salad.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, sometimes it's okay to take them along.	b	Right .

sd	Sometimes I think we pay the baby sitter as much as paying for their dinner or lunches	b	Yes.

sd	and it wouldn't even really matter which restaurant it was, just to, you know, have a moment of peace and quiet without little ones at the table.	b	Yes.

qw	but, anyway, where do you like to eat?	sd	well, we don't have any children

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we like Indian food, and Thai cuisine and, sort of gourmet Mexican and, things like that, as well as Tex Mex and Italian and, Chinese and things, and things of that sort.

b	Right.	sd	And, we probably go out one to two times a week.

b	Right.	sd	And, we're pretty much regulars at an local Italian restaurant.

qw	which one do you like?	sd	Momo's.

sd	There's an Italian restaurant over by the mall, over by, Plano Parkway there,	b	Uh huh.

qh	is it Campari's or something?	sd	I've heard about it,

sd	and actually we went in there for lunch one day.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, their pastas were great.	sd	that's one of the things, a good pasta means a lot to me.

sv	You're brave .	aa	Yes,

ba	God.	sd	And I'm not fond of some of those things

b	Right.	sd	we've had Ethiopian. And, not in Plano of course .

sv	I don't think so .	sd	But, we really do enjoy going out

sv	well. Even though traditional it can backfire.	aa	Yeah.

sd	You know what, we read the, D MAGAZINE	b	Uh huh.

sd	we check that and, the Friday section in the newspaper the pull out section there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They often do ratings of restaurants,	b	Right.

sd	we've usually, we often save those and ventured out on, from there, just for something that had a high rating.	b	Uh huh.

b	Okay.	sd	When a new restaurant opens up, they usually send out coupons.

aa	That's, That's right.	sd(^q)	And you know, when they say, you know, buy one get one free. It's hard to resist,

ba^r	good.	sd	But we've found probably half of our sort of regular restaurants through coupons, and the other half through the newspaper reviews.

aa^r	That's true.	sd	I mean it's wonderful, particularly if you have more than two people and you've got say four or something like that.

aa^r	Right.	b	So, yeah

sv	, sometimes I think going out to eat it's sort of a recreation.	b	Yes.

sv	So, just a change of pace from, eating at home.	b	Yes.

sd	So, anyway. I guess, as far as service when we go out it's nice to have someone come and wait the table. And clear the table and,	b	Yeah.

sv	but it's not nice when they're too attentive.	aa	yes.

sd	So, we've had experience with that, too.	sd	m , m , my sister, who also lives here in Dallas, tends to, chat with waiters and waitresses and become their best friends during the course of dinner, which drives me absolutely batty.

sv	it may help their tip, may not,	qw	What's your favorite restaurant?

sd	I guess just in Plano I like to go to Souper Salads.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Chili's is always fine.	b	Sure.

sd	I guess if we go into Dallas, we like, the is it Routh Street Cafe.	sd	You know, we've never been there.

sv	Well well, you would like it.	sd	And that's supposed to be wonderful.

sv	You'd like it especially it you're adventuresome.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, we had venison venison chili one time. Which was absolutely wonderful.	ba	Ooh.

sd	well they've never had it when we've been back,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's, it's very good.	sd	I would probably like that.

o	No.	sd	that's supposed to be a wonderful place.

sv	Actually, to tell you the truth, I think, jury selection is a, prime, discussion topic in terms of possible improvements on, finding of, guilt.	aa	I certainly can't argue with that.

sd	the, peremptory challenges are limited to, I don't know how many,	sd	I think it's, Four or five,

sv(^q)	and I suppose an elitist might say, well, you really want someone who is well educated to be able to winnow the facts from the prejudice.	aa	Right,

b	Right.	sd	So, if it's your peers and you're not educated then,

sv	So if you're a nincompoop on trial, you'd have to have nincompoops to,	sv	You want you want a nincompoop jury because they'll sympathize with you a bit as well as hopefully being honest people and do their best to comply with the facts as they were presented to them.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, I think the jury selection process is pretty neat,

ny^r	uh huh.	sd	and many times I've seen on trials they have on T V, the jury will make a recommendation as to leniency or as to the death penalty or whatever,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think that would provide a more fair sentencing procedure. As opposed to an emotional sentencing procedure. Also, may be a more consistent sentencing procedure.

sd	Matter of fact, I've heard that, I've heard that some of the information, is prevented from reaching the jury, like, mitigating circumstances or preceding, criminal record or things of this nature that,	sd	Well, preceding criminal record, according to the judicial process has nothing to do with the current crime.

sd	I didn't realize that.	sd	At least in California, they're supposed to be.

b	Right.	sv	But when it comes to what kind of sentence you're going to lay down, I think that they should.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know that they always have because I never sat all the way through a jury trial.

bf	So, what you're saying is this, if there is the second offense, then you execute them.	sv	Well, if it's a second offense, the punishment should certainly be more severe than a first offense, because obviously, the rehabilitation process did not work the first time.

qo	What about, white collar crimes like, theft of trade secrets.	sv	I think those ought to be punished a whole lot worse than they are.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

qw	Like what?	sd	Well, say, embezzlement, right.

qw	How has it been this week for you?	qr	Weather wise, or otherwise?

sd	Weather wise.	b^m	Weather wise.

b^m	damp.	sd	we have gone through, what might be called the four seasons, in the last week.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We have had highs of seventy two, lows in the twenties.

sd	It was ninety six yesterday,	sd	I heard about that.

sd	we're having a lot of allergies down here right now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the weather.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so. Had a lot of people out at work, you know, for fishing, and and golfing, reasons and things like that.	bf	The blue flu,

b	Yeah.	b	yeah,

aa	Yes.	sd	as I've said, we have had variable weather.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, we've had an unusually, warm spring,

bh	No snow?	sd	to speak of.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I thought I heard this morning that in San Antonio it was in the nineties yesterday.

sd	And, of course we are, about two hours from the northern border, straight south,	b	Yeah.

sd	I can't remember, you know, a day that I walked out and the wind wasn't blowing.	b	Uh huh

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, otherwise as I said, we have had, a relatively mild winter, speaking for this area of the country.

sd	I have a brother that lives in, South Bend, Indiana.	ba	yes.

sd	But, I didn't.	sv	Well, you are not from that area originally, I can tell.

sd	originally I'm from New Mexico.	bk	okay.

sd	and we lived in, South Bend for eight years, and, then moved to, Tennessee actually.	b	Uh huh.

sd	cause I spent thirteen years there. And, then moved to Dallas about three years ago.	b	Uh huh.

sd	my father was in the Air Force,	bk	I see.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well, I worked for the government,

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	but, I guess this is my first conversation in this, series.

b	uh huh.	sd^t	I received a call last night because of the,

b	Right.	sd^t	So, I had to call Jack Godfrey today to ask him what it was, because I had to abort the call last evening because I couldn't get on the line.

b	Yeah .	qy	So, is there any,

qy	do you work for Texas Instruments?	nn	No,

bk	okay.	sd^t	And, I was sent an application from Jack.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've known Jack for some time.

bk	okay.	sd^t	so I was very much interested, in being a speaker for this .

sd	and, I'm an environmental engineer,	bk	I see.

sd^t	and, they just published this internally, you know, getting people involved.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	I was saying, God, do we have a TI in Maryland	sd	I'm sure you have a representative somewhere in the area. If just nothing more than a business representative or government services representative,

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	but I have been a speaker in other, similar type of activities.

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	And, I know the reason why the, this is being gathered and the program and so forth,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We haven't talked much about the weather .

b	well.	sd^t	I know that's what we're supposed to do.

sd^t	and I always thought it's not necessary to measure your time, just to go ahead and enjoy the conversation, and, end it when needed.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Uh huh.	qy	is that with regard to work place engineering, or just, you know, the work place environment

nd	well, it's actually, waste water.	bk	I see.

sd	but , within our department. We take care of everything. Waste water, solid waste, and recycling, and air and ,	b	Uh huh.

b	uh huh.	sd^t	The call I received,

b	uh huh.	sv	but that's interesting.

b	uh huh.	sd	And, one of his,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, one of the,

sd	and we take care of just the Dallas area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, we do air modeling also.	bk	I see.

sd	and, we have a huge chemical data base.	ba	Well, that's interesting.

sv	so you probably have a job you need to get to pretty soon.	sd	I'm already on my job

bf	you are,	sd^t	so, you reached me at my job.

qw	well how do you dress for work?	sd	my dress for work, most of the time is, rather comfortable and casual usually, slacks and a soft colored shirt.

b	Uh huh.	sd	The, thing that distinguishes me a lot of the time when I have to dress real professionally for a meeting or something is I wear a clerical collar and a suit and, all of that sort of thing,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but when I don't need to dress up for a meeting or a service of some sort, I don't.

qy^d	So you're in a church there?	ny	Yes.

sd	so, I'm going to be dressing just in casual slacks and T shirts, probably not blue jeans, but little bit short of that, just tennis shoes and play clothes.	sv	Well, around there you can probably wear, T shirts and other things,

sd	but in the mornings people are dressing for work in their sweaters because they just want it to be fall so badly .	sd	today we wear coats

bh	Did you?	sd	but I don't think there's an escape from light jackets.

ba	I understand.	sd	The wind will take away a lot of body heat.

qy	Well, so are the people around you, dressing similar to you?	na	Very similar.

bf	so you don't have to buy the lot of the wardrobe that some of the people in banking and that kind of thing do.	aa	No,

ba^r	That's good.	sd	As I say, unless it happens to be,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but then I can go home later in the day and be a little more casual

ba	Well that's wonderful .	sd	and then if I have a meeting of people that I know, I can be very casual in the evening.

sd	and even when his job is not going to be with people all day long, he said it's just part of the uniform and the expected image that they have to dress.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, there are expected, dress codes

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the people need to follow that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I've relaxed a lot more as I've gotten older and become more comfortable with myself.

ba	I think that's good.	sd	It's taken a long time to break away, from that

ba	I understand.	sd	but now that I've broken away from it, I'm glad I have.

sd	and I will run around to the store in things, in slacks and tennis shoes,	bf	You mean you don't need to wear little old house dresses any more?

sd	but that's okay .	ba	That's a good idea,

sd^t	Well, there's not a lot more I can think of to discuss on clothing.	aa	No,

sv^t	I guess this is what you call a natural end .	aa	Yeah,

sd	of course, like I said, if my husband's going downtown, he's got the whole, you know, men's dress shoes	b	Uh huh.

sd	we all kind of have our own little dress code of just either tennis shoes or little loafers and, tights, and things that feel comfortable to us around our kids.	sd	we can wear pretty much that, although, tennis shoes are kind of out in almost every, every situation unless you want to look like a gook .

sv	It's a lot different than working in a kids preschool.	b^m	A lot different.

fc	Well, you all have a nice day there.	fc	You too,

ft	Thank you very much.	fc	Uh huh.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qw	Well, what are your hobbies?	sd	Well, actually my hobbies now are T shirt making.

qw	What kinds of, sweat shirts and T shirts do you make?	sd	right now I'm making Christmas ones with poinsettias and bears and all that kind of thing.

qy	Is that silk screening, or,	nn	no,

bk	I see.	sd	So, it's real fun.

qo	Well, how's it going?	sd	Pretty good.

ba	Well, that sounds great.	sd	I guess in my spare time I'll be making T shirts .

sv	Well, somebody has to do it,	aa	That's right, you know.

sv	Give you a little Christmas money, any way.	aa	That's correct.

sd	Well, I kind of have hobby fads, I guess.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I went ahead and sold it.	ba	my gosh.

sd	I really enjoyed it.	qw	Well, how'd you learn to do that to fix them up?

sd	you just,	qr	You just get a book that tells you how to do it or what?

sd	and and so I bought it	b	Uh huh.

sd	just kind of do it.	qw	Where'd you get the car?

sd	and I bought it up there before I moved down here.	ba	Wow.

sd	there isn't too much rust on any vehicles down here.	aa	Well, that's true,

sv^t	Well, gee I guess there really isn't too much to talk about on hobbies.	^h	Let's see.

sv	and T shirt making about covers yours.	^h	Well, let's see,

br^m	In New Mexico?	aa	Uh huh,

bk	Okay.	^h	So. Let's see,

qw	How many music boxes do you have?	sd	Probably about twenty.

qy	Do they all play different songs	ny	Uh huh.

qrr	or do some of them play the same song?	sd	they all play different songs.

qw	What's the most expensive one you bought?	b^m	The most expensive.

b	really.	sd	bought a few of them.

sd	It used to be tea spoons, was the thing.	aa	That's true .

ba	Well, that's interesting, music boxes.	sd	I have dolls from all over too.

qo	Well how was Europe?	sd	economy.

qy	Was that in high school	ny	Uh huh

qrr	or was that a college thing?	sd^r	in was in high school.

aa	I bet.	sd	everything was like an hour or two hours at the Louvre, you know, things like that where you need the whole day,

sv	That's where a camcorder would come in handy.	aa	Exactly,

qy^g	So you haven't been back to Europe since then, huh?	nn	No,

qw	what does he think of your, T shirts and,	sd	Well, he likes it all right.

qw	what's your budget situation?	sd	Well, actually, I've had a couple of different situations.

qy^g	You know, well a , actually that kind of situation is just wonderful for budgets. Isn't it?	aa	It certainly is .

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, mostly we just spent cash. Whatever we had.

qy^d	you you were born in the, in the late thirties or early forties.	sd	Late thirties,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, my mother hardly ever spent anything on herself or on the house.

ba	Well, that's good.	sd	And that's the way I've operated ever since then.

sd	we just got through buying a twenty five foot refrigerator, a new ceramic top stove, and a new dishwasher.	ba	my .

sd	and we put twenty eight hundred dollars on the charge. Along with my trip to Japan which was fourteen or fifteen hundred dollars	ba	my!

sd	And we pay it off as it goes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So we never really get that much over extended.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean we just we've just been spending, spending, spending.	ba	my.

sd	but we haven't really done anything for a long time because we've had two kids in college that just have graduated in the past year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So you know, we don't have that.	qy^g	It's time for you to do these things then. Right?

sd	but, too late, we'll never find that out.	ba	This is so funny.

sd	I suppose I do because I've seen a lot of those changes, the changes that women have had in well, you know, not even the last generation, the last fifteen years twenty years, going from,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm going back too far, from my parents' generation when mom stayed home, period	b	Yeah.

sd	if you were educated you know, you might teach for a year or two before you got married.	b	Yeah.

sd	And if you really pushed it, you taught until you had kids or something you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	if you were a teacher. Then, you know, that was it, until the kids were little.	aa	Yeah,

sv	there's not supposed to be any reason to use this education or this brain that you might have for anything other than your house and your children and how clean can the bathroom floors be on any given day.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, your kids should be totally happy in day care, because everybody else goes to day care	b	Yeah.

sv	and we have these wonderful people who are who are totally prepared to teach your child everything they need to know in day care	b	Uh huh.

sv	at least for a lot of women depending on what she did.	b	Yeah.

sd	I couldn't put in enough overtime that was necess , or you know, things that would come up at work, that would require me to stay late or to come in early or to do something on Saturdays you know, as is needed, because my husband for a long time was out of the country also with work, for like three months	b	Uh huh.

aa	Yeah.	sv	Well that's the thing, see, you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	But if you're going to be more professional oriented, then you've got to have this, to be able to perform well on the job

sd	in my case, I just, decided that, as long as my kids were little, I would be better off at home with them, instead of driving myself crazy trying to do everything at once.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, actually I've found out that I'm not going to go back to being an engineer.	qw	What will you,

sd	I'm, I'm a photographer now.	bk	okay,

sd	but when I went to college I felt like I couldn't support myself if I decided to be a photographer that it would just have to be a hobby,	b	Yeah.

sd	And then I stayed home with my son, and did nothing. And found out that, you know, it was great,	b	Yeah.

sd	And I wanted something else to do,	aa	Yeah,

sv	but as they get older and they're more independent, and there's things to do, then it's good for them to go to different,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so they get the socialization with other kids, you know, and not really school, but a different authority than mom, once in a while, you know, kind of learning how to deal with society.	sv	and they need that, you know, to be able to relate to other people besides the same person every day.

sd	And I need it for the break.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and someone's got to do it, and be able to do it right,

sv	and they're going to have to work it out to working part time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because if I had been allowed to work, you know, maybe thirty hours a week instead of fifty hours a week, I might still be working basically full time or part time, if there had been some way to work it out,	b	Yeah.

sd	because, I liked my job really well.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's what I'm doing, is working part time because I can put my kids in a day care situation for a few hours in the, week and use those hours to do.	b	Yeah.

sd	The thing that I'm doing is taking school pictures in day cares and in Mother's Day Out programs, and also soccer teams, and, you know, different stuff like that.	b	Yeah.

sd	or my husband, you know, when he's at home, can take care of them.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think they're really going to have to, and not just for mothers, for fathers as well.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's going to have to be both.	sv	Well, so that's another thing that has to adapt is, you know, the father's attitudes about, you know, whose job is this.

b	Yeah.	sv	Well, it's his job too.

sv	It's just convincing your husband or that it's important enough for him to do it.	b	Yeah

sv	Because if he saw mom doing only that you know, all the time he was growing up then it's hard to think of it that I should do it or just to think about doing it rather than having someone tell him to do it.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	I know that was a big thing in our house for a long time was that if I wanted my husband to do something to help, and even though we were both working the same number of hours, and doing things, I had to come in there specifically and say this needs to be done,	b	Uh huh.

^q	this is what you do it now.	sd(^q)	And a man might say out loud, well, you know, I understand this

b	Yes,	sv	and that's a very hard attitude to change.

sv	Most of the men don't walk into the kitchen and see that the dishes are there and that yes, you probably ought to unload the dishwasher and load the new ones in and run it.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	And I think most women walk in and, and with, got to clean all this up. Got to get this out and this in and this, you know, taken care of, instead of having someone say now, this needs to be do , this is the time this needs to be done,	b	Yeah,

sv(^q)	they're not going to, the boys in this next generation are not going to have to be told as much this needs to be done, because mom was there saying that dad is there, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you both got to, they were both working at whatever things needed to be done.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	They're going to say to the kids you need do this, because it needs to be done not because it's a woman's job or a man's job, but because it's dirty and it needs to be clean.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And it's going to, It's going to,	sv	and I think that's happened in a lot of cases.

sv	the ones that are now getting to be teenagers and in some cases, young college.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	but sometimes, it's baby sitting.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's someone, you know, keeping an eye on the kids

b	Yeah.	^q	and here's what wrong,

sd	and I felt like when they were young, that was the time to instill it. That it could be added to and strengthened as they grew older, but when they were little, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	when you, if you, if you teach them when they're little the way you want them to be, and the things that are important to you, then you add onto it as they get older.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But if no one does anything when they're little, then it's twice as hard I think, as they get older.	aa	Yes.

sd	I wait until I put mine in bed before I make my calls.	b	Yeah,

sv	like we said, if women's roles change drastically, men's roles will, too.	aa	Yeah,

sv	but I think if we can expand the men's roles at the same time, like your taking care of your child, and your dad probably didn't very often	aa	No.

qy	Are you going to tell me what you've been doing lately in the	na	Sure,

bk	okay.	sd	I'll offer anything that I can on the subject.

ba	my.	sd	So, it had to have everything done from top to bottom to having it leveled, jacked up, new plumbing, new wiring, wallpaper, paint,

sv	You, You are experienced I would say.	sd	Well, I really did enjoy it, you know,

aa	Well, I agree.	b	Yeah.

sd	I have done something, like that, too, only not nearly as extensive.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But it must be interesting now trying to do something to a basic ranch, style home.  after having a one that was historical looking.	sd	It is.

b	Yes.	sd	So, that's really why we ended up in a house like this.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, you know, I'm ready to get ahold of another one that I can have a little more input into

ad	Well, maybe you can, make that one charming and make a little bit money,	aa	Yeah.

sd	Well, we just moved to Charlotte, from Enid, Oklahoma.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I know, of what you're talking about, as far as the market was concerned	b	Yeah.

sd	It was a cedar shake house, and very weathered.	ba	yes.

sd	And, it was about fifty years old, but not really, traditional looking, particularly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I spent almost three years redoing.	b	yeah.

sd	And I considered it a full time job	sv	it is,

sd	we kind of had planned this, trek to the east, because we're both originally from this part of the country.	b	Uh huh,

sd	For instance, one thing that I did that might even be a good suggestion for you was something I did on the outside.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I love old estate sales.	b	Yes,

sd	I happened to go to just a little estate sale just a little white frame house, where the couple, was very old, and had gone into nursing homes	b	Uh huh.

sd	and all the men started going down to the barn.	b	yeah.

^q	well shoot I'm going,	bf	That's where I need to go .

^q	I'm going to the barn, too.	aa	Exactly.

sd	They, auctioned some tools and, things like that,	b	Yeah.

sd	but then they went over and started, auctioning this big stack of bricks.	b	Oh.

sd(^q)	And, so, well, I thought, gee, I've been wanting to, do some brick, walkways for a time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Anyway, it ended up after some pretty, heavy bidding, that I got all those bricks for forty dollars.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, so my husband and I loaded bricks in his, pickup truck for days.	ba	no.

sd	But, what we ended up with was about four thousand.	qy	For forty dollars?

na^m	For forty dollars.	ba	my.

sd	we had built a deck on the back of that house,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, it was quite large out to, into the yard	^2	Something.

sd	but, on either side of it to the ends of the house it just needed to be all tied together.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So we, made brick patios, and walkways.	b	Right.

sd	and he did the digging, which was about six inches,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I figured the sand and all, had that delivered and, leveled it and, placed most all the bricks.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it turned out beautifully.	ba	I bet.

sd	Well, it nearly killed me .	aa	Yeah,

sd	I hated to leave it.	^h	Well, let me ask you,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, they have to be doing something constantly.

nn	No	sd	But they have a problem with these little like sand bugs or something that drill in between all these bricks.

sd	I did get some material and studied every bit of material that I could study,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we laid those bricks about as close as you can get them,	b	Yeah.

sd	and we put them on a base of four inches of sand	b	Okay,

sd	but but it was an error to leave like an eighth of an inch or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You just put them together as close as you can.	bf	As tight as you can.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, they just haven't brought themselves to do it.

sd	and I also used a rubber hammer, a lot, to, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	if it wasn't quite level or something, I'd just get that, rubber hammer and, and prob , you know,	b	Right.

sd	if they have problems with, sand bugs of some kind I think all they need to do is probably put some insecticide down in there on a fairly regular basis, for a while anyway.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, I think, I think she needs to take them to the extension agent and ask him what they are	bf	And then she won't have to worry about it.

^q	or what is it that will,	b	Right.

sd	Dursban or something like that.	b	Yeah,

sd	I think in this area or most all areas they use, you know, for ticks and fleas.	b	Yeah.

sv	And you know, they're, awful hard to do anything with.	b	Right.

sv	I bet Dursban would do it.	am	it might do it,

sv	I think, you probably just need to make sure that it dries, very, very well, before she lets her cats out, or something, like that.	b	Uh huh.

qy^g	Well, gosh, Deb, we could talk all day couldn't we .	na	I know,

b	Yes.	sd	But, gosh, you know, I ended up wallpapering every bedroom in that house, up the stairway, even.

ba	Wow.	sd	You know, I just had a ball with it,

b	Oh.	sd	it was so much fun.

ba	good.	b	Yeah.

b	Yes.	sd	and she has that up in her attic

sd	so I'm just starting out.	b	yes .

sv	that's quite a spread .	aa	Yes.

sd	so they couldn't do a whole lot, yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They like to be outside as much as possible.	sv	If it's not raining.

sd	but, you know, the weather's trying to turn now	qy	are you down here in Texas?

sd^e	I I'm, I'm in, Dallas.	b	Okay,

na^r	right.	b	Oh.

b	Right.	b	Okay, ,

sd	one of the trends I've, I've noticed is that, it's always too easy to just plop your kids down in front of the T V and let them watch movies or play video games or something.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Sure.	sd^c	I have to answer a business phone .

aa	Sure.	fa^t	I hate to do it on this call.

bd	That's okay.	t3	Good morning, A R E, this is Arlene Lister .

sd	And one of the things we try to do is we try to avoid doing that as much as possible. Although it really is very easy to do that type of thing. Just plop them down in front of the T V and let them be, entertained that way.	b	Uh huh.

qw	And, seeing as you've got some older children, I'm wondering, how did you handle that, when they were growing up?	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	when my big kids were little, you know, ev , all the mothers were home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, the kids got up in the morning and ate breakfast and poked around

b	Right.	sv	And, I think it's gotten, very different.

b	Right.	sd	and, other than that, I mean, there was not educational T V

b	Right.	sd	But, we always did, just, you know, to the park for walks and to the zoo and museum.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We did a lot of stuff like that with our kids.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, course, when they got bigger, they were both quite into sports

b	Yeah.	sv	and, , a girl is very different .

aa	Right .	sv	So, they're very different,

b	Uh huh .	sd	like last night was a band concert

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she plays on her school volleyball team and, stuff like that.

b	Right.	sd	One of our older kids now is going to graduate school down at College Station

ba	that's nice.	sd	we go down there fairly often, you know, for a weekend for, you know, family get togethers and stuff like that.

sd	And I think we probably will soon as the boys get a little bit older.	b	Uh huh.

sd	because they like just being outside.	aa	yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and this time of the year it, the fun thing was to go out and swoosh around in the leaves , you know.

b	Right.	sd	So, You know, so it's very different

sd	you don't see many leaves around Dallas.	sd	and, you know, come winter time we'd stick them on sleds.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and from little on, you know,

sd^t	one of the things they asked me to ask you was where you thought the major source was coming from? Or sources.	sd	you know, I assume, that the major sources are cars and factories.

aa	That's what, I would think.	sd	But I, I don't know for sure.

sd	They found people are getting sick,	b	Yeah.

sd	and the only thing I can think of would be cars and factories.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	sd	I guess there's been a lot of pressure to, do away with the C F C's in these spray bottles which, has been a real problem.

qy^g	well that's destroying the ozone, isn't it?	na	Again that's what I hear

sv	It's kind of scary.	aa	Well, it is scary

b	Yeah.	sv	We've got to learn to manage without destroying the environment.

sv	I think something too that you probably see in older states, all we do it down here once in a while we will have a cold spell is where people will use their fireplaces.	sd	I, I'm wondering whether it's going to get to the point where you can't, do that.

sv	I think it will.	sd	In Los Angeles they're apparently going to,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's really bad in places like Los Angeles,

b	Right.	sd	and, it's not too bad around here although you see it, you know, more and more in the sky.

b	Right.	sv	and our economy seems to,

sd	In this area too since, you know, in Texas we're so spread out,	b	Yeah.

sd	and we don't even have any mountains that are, holding it in.	b	Yeah.

sd	But they also said that more dense the population and the more we crowd together, the worse it gets.	sv	Well that makes a lot of sense.

sd	You don't have to have mountains that are stopping it.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we didn't see this a few years ago.	aa	No,

sd	It was pretty clear here.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	and, we're going to feel it,

b	Yeah.	sv	and in this country, the solution that people seem to think work are politically unacceptable.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I have a little sports car that I enjoy using

qy	So do you have any recycling programs there?	ng	I don't really think we have anything in the works as of yet.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we're a pretty small town

sd	We've progressed a little bit farther than that.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, they will have these green bins	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's just as standard as a regular trash can that they come by and pick up and dump.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, anything that can be recycled you just put in that bin.	b	Oh.

sd	and a lot of the restaurants they just have, places especially beer places, where you can throw away green bottles, and then the brown bottles.	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess they're, you know, clear bottles.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, of course, they have the, dumpsters, the igloos.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they have those strategically placed around the city.	b	Oh.

sd	And, they're actually going to extend it, I think, one of these days maybe to apartment complexes	sv	that would be good.

sv	So, I guess when you live in a bigger city it really becomes, necessary.	b	Yeah,

b	yeah.	sd	But that's as far as we go

b	Uh huh.	sd	and and I don't want the hassle because we have to go to another town to do it.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I remember my grandparents and I used to always get out there on the road and pick up beer cans.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, of course, there you know you have a specific place to put your paper.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I think it started out to be, just kind of a test, a pilot project.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, they just go around to each, door and pick it up.	ba	Wow, that's excellent.

b	Yeah.	ba	That's good.

sd	and every year, of course, the phone books they tell everybody across the city to, put all their phone books in, the, recycle bins.	b	Yeah.

sd	well, for a bigger city they're pretty thick.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And sometimes you might have two or three.	aa	Exactly.

sv	So, that's a big savings right there in itself.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sd	It just, you know, there's not a whole lot.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But usually it, it hasn't caught on yet.

sd	recycled paper is actually very expensive.	b	Yeah.

sd	it's really a cost.	sd	I wasn't totally aware of that.

sd	But I know, for a fact that the paper, on that end they're not, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's, not to their advantage.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	I can't think of anything else.	sd^t	I can't either. Because we're at a very, you know, beginning stages,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We look forward to it to get better .

sd	Well, I hope you all, come along a little farther in the future.	aa	Yeah,

fc	It was nice talking to you.	fc	You too.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qy	Are you there?	ny	Uh huh.

ad	now tell me your favorite team.	qy	baseball?

ny	Yes.	sd	Well, I've kind of , been intrigued with the Rangers, more so with, their management than anything else.

ad	so we'll have to talk about the future with the Rangers.	b	Uh huh.

qo	What are your thinkings on what they can do, what they'll be able to do?	sv	Well, I think that, you know, with, so much controversy over Ruben Sierra not signing and asking us for so much money, it's, you know, I think

nd	Well, I heard tonight on the news that he is willing to come down. on his,	b	Yeah

b	uh huh.	sd	but a little bit you know, from thirty million dollars or thirty five mil ,

sv	they're the ones that probably are paying the highest.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And I think this is absolutely ridiculous.	b	Uh huh.

o	No.	sv	And I really think that they ought to,

aa	That's right.	qh	And then, who knows,

sd	Buechele was back just to visit.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm awful sorry he's not still.	aa	yeah,

aa	I'm sure it was.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, you know, he's real happy there.

qo	Well, what do you think of Howse, who is the coach for the pitchers?	br^m	The pitching coach?

aa	Yes.	sd	Well, you know, I was just looking at the news tonight,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that's a great addition.

sd	I really wish they could see fit to get rid of Howse.	qy^g	you don't like Howse,

sd	and I'm not fond of Grieves.	br^m	Tom Grieve?

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I'm just gullible enough that I think Bobby Valentine is, doing all right	qy^g	You do,

nd	Well ,	sd	That's contrary to, popular belief, you know .

sd	but I would like so much for these Rangers to get their act together and give, Nolan Ryan the support he needs.	aa	I know .

aa	I understand.	sv	They need to have some young guys that can take the lead

qy	So have you done any painting projects lately?	ny	Yeah,

bh	really?	sd	Was not a big deal

qw	What kind of painting was it?	sd	two little deals,

bh	was it?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sd	but I know I can do it.

b	uh huh.	sd	And the second one was I bought some toys at a craft fair.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They're unfinished wooden book ends and stuff for a little girl for Christmas,

qw	well, what kind of paint did you use for the, bookends?	sd	Well, it, that's half the problem right there is that it was a oil base,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I kind of knew, in the back of my mind,

qy^d	So you can't use oil on wood?	nn	Well, no,

bf	so you had to go around with paint all over you, temporarily, anyway.	aa	Yeah,

qy	is that what you usually use in the house, is latex?	ny	Yeah,

sd	and one of the real strict, restrictions, was the fact that she had to have a special kind of paint that was fire proof and lead free and all that other good stuff	b	Yeah.

sd	so, she had that done.	qy	Have you painted anything recently.

na@	Well, so to speak, I had to paint the inside of this warehouse thing * I would have put a slash after the answer "so to speak" that you keep some, farm equipment in	qy	Wow, was it huge?

sd	I mean you know, it looked just like, it was the viscosity of paint thinner	b	Yeah.

sd	and, if you saw that the wood was getting wet, you know, that was all you needed.	ba	Wow.

sd	It was pretty easy, actually.	b	Yeah,

qy	Did you have to do that?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I went around the trim,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it came right off

b	yeah,	sd	so there was no major mistakes,

qr	Did you have, one coat or two?	sd	two, actually

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, around the windows, if you got it on the glass, we let it dry and scraped it after that

sv	that would be really a time saver.	aa	Well, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I didn't make that many mistakes,

sd	it would have taken me forever.	qw	Why?

sd	well, the first time it'd probably would have taken me forever,	sd	Well, it wasn't,

qw	Well, how long did it take you all?	sd	Well, a couple of week ends

qy^d	So there was two of you all?	nn	No,

sv	Well, that's easy enough.	sd	So, there's a whole bunch of people.

sd	I think I could probably do it as long as the hardware store told me what to buy, then I could do it.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	Well, I don't have strong feelings about changes to be made in the, jury system, do you?	ng	not at all.

sv	well then you must know a lot more about this than I do .	sv	I think, the system right now, you know, you know, is fine.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	I don't even think that it should be unanimous either.

sd	I thought that was the point of, a unanimous jury was the idea that if everyone agrees then there shouldn't be any reasonable doubt.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, if there are some people who don't agree it seems to be there must be at least a reasonable doubt for some people.	aa	Exactly.

qy	Have you served on a jury?	ng	Never.

sd	They say they're, remarkably incompetent. And, don't know what they're doing and say one thing in the courtroom and then as soon as they get in the back room they just start letting all their prejudices hang out to air, and all that.	sv	Well, you would think that they would get that in the,

sd	, they don't want anyone with exper , anyone with particular experience or knowledge of the legal system.	aa	Exactly.

sd	let's say I were arrested falsely or not and put up for a jury I wouldn't feel that, I would be being tried by a jury of my peers.	b	Uh huh.

h	and, I don't know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I get a little bit nervous about it,	sd	I've never , I've never even been called to jury duty.

sd	so I'm pretty sure I didn't.	b	Yeah.

sv	because, you know, there's the classic sort of TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD kind of story where you get, you know, jury which can have all kinds of prejudices and things that, a judge at least officially isn't supposed to have. Though, of course they can, too. / * This last sentence really appears to be an independent slash unit	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, it seems to me that if you could just have a simple majority or something you could pretty much you know, browbeat the jury, of the, a majority of the jury,	b	Uh huh.

^q	and, let's throw the rascal in jail and stuff.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	let's make them pay as much as possible. Things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I'd be real nervous having a jury not at least fully agree on what the settlements would be, things like that.	sv	I do , I don't think the judge should just make the decision alone.

b	Yeah.	sd	Least with the jury you have twelve people, you know that are going to decide, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd@	you're the person's fate. / * This really is part of utt1

sv	I guess the judge's time is worth too much, though.	aa	Exac ,

sv	they pay those jury members very little money compared to that judge .	aa	Right,

sv	He makes more money in an hour than all twelve of them put together.	am	Probably,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	or they fool the defense in thinking that they're, you know,

sv	They want to find a juror that's going to, be most persuadable by their arguments, you know.	aa	Exactly.

^q	I'm too busy to serve on a jury,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they or just, you know, just answer one of the questions the wrong way because you can do that, you know,	b	yeah.

sd(^q)	they just say do you believe in such and such.	sv	I guess it's just that maybe people are, you know, upset at court, you know.

sv	Course, they would be barred,	sv	But, I think if everyone took it seriously

b	Uh huh.	sv@	and, I mean, something you have to do . / * This really seems to be just a continuation of B.68, not an indep slash unit

sv	well it sounds like we both need to get out there and serve on a jury.	b	Yeah.

sd	I hope we're called up before too long.	sd	I would love to be called,

fc	well it was nice talking with you.	fc	It was nice talking to you.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	so I can assume that you probably watch the T V news.	sd	I almost never watch T V news.

ba	Wow.	sd	I get most of my news driving back and forth to work listening to the radio.

qw	what station do you listen to?	sd	it's a local radio station.

qy^d	Not it's not a network station.	nn	No.

sd	They're getting a little feisty now .	sd	Well, this station has a lot of just ongoing news

qy^d	so you have a paper or something or,	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I read it pretty much from cover to cover.

sd	fact, last time I read the Dallas news I was in Arkansas.	sd	The TIMES HERALD went out of business here

bh	yeah?	sd	and so we really only have one Dallas newspaper and one, Fort Worth newspaper.

qw	So, how did that happen, anyway?	sd	financial trouble.

qw	I mean, when did they ,	br^m	when did it happen?

aa	Yeah.	sd	I guess they closed down about three months ago.

b	really.	qw	So, how do you keep up?

sd	There's, quite a task if you've ever run into one.	aa	Yes, they're very voluminous.

sd	and then the HERALD EXAMINER collapsed about two years ago because of, I don't know, just nobody was buying it really.	qy^d	So there really is only one major L A now?

sd	but, you know, it's not the TIMES.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't have time.	sd	I used to read TIME magazine a lot,

sv	There's a lot of people who fall into that, category.	sd	And then we have a local rag here in town that I pick up periodically and read just to see what's going on in our little community. Because we don't get an awful lot of coverage in the DALLAS MORNING NEWS.

sv	It's basically anything that's south of downtown, they don't bother to cover.	sd	Now, they have started here running a three day, or three times a week Plano section.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it's just sort of you know, four or five pages that covers what's going on in Plano.

sd	I mean, I mean, the way they've been handling it before, they practically acted like their reporters needed to shots to go south of the L A county border .	sd	I would imagine you know, in, in Dallas they have plenty happening in Dallas to cover, that it gets hard covering all of the suburbs

^q	but you're not bothering to cover the things that are interesting to us.	b	Yeah.

b	Okay .	qy	Well, did you go to college?

sd^e	I did.	qw	And where did you go?

sd	I went to a small liberal arts college in Virginia.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but my parents were retiring in South Carolina when I graduated and, were looking for a southern school and, also U of M seemed overwhelming in size	b	Uh huh.

qo	and, what about you?	sd	I went to the University of Minnesota.

bf	so you're from the Midwest, too.	aa	I am,

qw	Where are you?	sd	Well, I'm in Texas.

sd	we're in Plano.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I really like it .	sd	I love it.

bf	And your daughter is going to be a sophomore.	aa	That's correct.

qy	because you live in Austin, is she thinking about the University of Texas?	na	She has her heart set on U T.

b	Oh.	sd	So she went for a week,

b	Yes.	sd	The reason I ask if you went to college is I thought, well, you know,

sd	when I say small, my graduating class had eighteen in it.	ba	wow.

sd	And so they suggested that I might want a smaller school because I was used to a lot of one on one or small group situations.	aa	definitely.

sd	and I also wanted to spend one year studying in Europe.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I had had an A F S student from Germany live with us our senior year	ba	how exciting.

sd	but because I had had a fair amount of French going in I was able to do my year's study in France and able to take a lot of the other courses that interested me.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so that was some of,	bf	that was, That worked out very well for you.

sd	and I don't think that,	sv	Well, then he should come to U T.

sd	and really his graduating class will probably be in the neighborhood of eight hundred and fifty to a thousand.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so he's used to a bigger size	bf	Large classes.

sd	and they really felt, like they were numbers.	sd	I went from a large high school to a large university

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, it is a different feeling.

sd	And even though Baylor,	b	Yes.

sd	even this year, Jay had an aptitude test,	qw	what does,

qy	Does your daughter know what she'd like to do?	sd	she has, you know, interests that are just, you know, going in all directions.

b	Yeah.	sd	what she talks about a lot is theater which I think is ,

b	Yes.	sd(^q)	I mean, I'm kind of really putting the practical application, you know, and saying, yet, do something that you enjoy.

b	Uh huh.	^q	By all means, go get that piece of paper, you know.

ny	Yes.	bk	I see.

sd^t	invasions of privacy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	what most annoys me are all sorts of phone calls trying to sell me things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	All, sorts of hours calling and telling me that I want investment advise and I want this service and that service or the other thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	something about the random dialers that just dial phone numbers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess in some cases they just consider pickup your phone and, and not let you use your phone for a while whether you hang up on them or not.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, businesses would be prohibited, from calling for, for business selling you things.	sd	I have through, the phone company,

aa	I'm sure that's true.	sd	no nine hundred numbers can be dialed from my phone or received.

qy	is that right?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	And, especially with possibly children around.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that could be useful protection.	aa	Right.

sd	So, I used to deal with,	sd	But it does not stop you from the, dialing services.

qw	What are dialing services?	sd	Where they, intend to sell you things.

bf	where people just call you.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	those problems used to be when I used a credit card they'd want to have my phone number.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I gave out my work number	b	Right.

sd	otherwise I think the practice has basically been eliminated asking for a phone number.	sd	Well, that's the thing I hated too about, Radio Shack.

qw	How did Radio Shack work?	sd	If you go in and buy anything they want your phone number.

qy^d	but you, you nonetheless often get people calling you?	na	Sure.

qy^d	Despite the fact that your number is unlisted?	ny	Uh huh.

qrr	or are they just calling a number that happens to be yours?	sd	Well, anything that you buy you may get put on a, preferred list that is purchased.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and companies can purchase this list

bf	and they have a whole list of addresses and list of phone numbers.	aa	Uh huh.

qy	is there anything you can do about that like give out a phony phone number?	nn	no.

sv	I think it's gotten much worse the last, few years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Maybe that's just because I've gotten on more lists.	sv	that's the telephone is not the only invasion of privacy.

o^t	Your turn.	sd^t	I start.

sd	We just sort of invest the money and go on vacations and always never seem to have any money problems which I guess is a comfortable thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	It just sort of happens automatically.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, the cost of living here in California is, I would say rather pathological .	aa	Yes .

sd	housing prices are, you know, like from four to ten times more expensive than, they were where I came from in, Dallas.	bf	you moved from Dallas to San Francisco.

sd	So, that presents a real shock .	sv	That is a hugh difference.

sd	ac , actually our standard of living has gone down somewhat since we've moved to California	sv	But you have good sour dough

sv	It's God's country.	b	Yeah.

sd	When I, was in, undergraduate school a long, long time ago, I, noted that the starting average monthly salary salary for engineers you know, in my discipline, was like six hundred ten dollars a month or something like that.	b@	Uh huh. / * See B.22 note

sd	So I stopped worrying about money.	b	Yeah.

sd	never have worried about money since then.	sv	Well, that's a system too.

sd	But, I suppose I've lost money on not taking good advantage of, investments	sd	Well then again, you know, you said you are able to take trips.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, I mean that's a form of budgeting I would think .

sv	Well, I guess we're both lucky in that regard then.	b	Yeah.

qw	How big is your family?	sd	well we have one on the way.

bk	I see.	sd	my wife,

sv	whe , once you get ten children though, you may have,	ar	No

bk	all right .	qo	How about yourself?

sd	and they are beginning to be a budget problem but, have not been really up to this point.	qy	Do they budget at all?

sd	and I give him the other half in cold cash.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, at least, it isn't, you know, burning a hole in his pocket.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	we're supposed to talk about vacations.	aa	Right,

sd	Her grandmother lives there	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I'm praying I get to go.	ba	that's great.

sd	it will be probably the most exciting place I'll ever get to go.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you ever been to, like New Mexico?	nn	no, actually.

b	Oh.	qy	Why, have you?

sd	I was just wondering what it was like.	bk	okay .

br	Tahiti?	aa	Yeah.

b	oh.	ar	No,

b^m	Haiti.	aa	Right.

qw	Where is that?	sd	well, it's in the Caribbean

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I was down there with a program from the college that I went to where we would just spend like three months in a foreign country, most of them third world countries. And study the language and then do a little service project.

b	Uh huh.	b	So, yeah,

qw	So, what did you do when you were in Europe?	sd	well, see, I went there when I was in high school, actually

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I mostly went to Germany and visited some friends of my family and, hung out with them, worked a bit on one of their farms and also went to a youth camp.

qw	What did you do on the farm?	sd	well, not that much .

qy	Are you just kind of sight, just kind of,	na	Right,

sd	Paris.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	qw	And, how long do you plan to be going for?

sd	but we're only going to stay two weeks.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so that might be fun.	br	A what?

sd	French cooking.	ba	great.

b	Yeah.	qw	And, what else are you planning to do, if anything?

sd	go to museums and,	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you go to museums in Europe?	nn	actually, no,

ba	that's neat.	aa	Yeah,

qy	have you ever been to Hawaii?	nn	no,

bh	No?	qy	Have you?

nn	No.	bk	Okay .

sd	I'm wanting to go there.	qw	Where have you gone first?

qh	where have I gone that's anywhere.	b	Yeah,

qy^g	That shouldn't be too much trouble for the two of us. Right?	nn	No.

b	Right.	sd	But from talking to people in other districts there are some major problems, with dropouts.

b	Uh huh .	sd	and sometimes they didn't even show up for class

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, they just didn't come to school.

qy^g	That's really sad isn't it? .	sd	And I cannot imagine being able to do much of anything when they don't even come to school.

sd	Well just recently in the paper here, were articles about students, working. High school students that work and the percentage of hours that they work and how that affects their grades.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but for those students who are determined to do well anyway, that, you know, handling a job was very possible. You know, and that it seemed to have more to do with other factors.	aa	I think so too.

sd	And what's their home situation.	sv	The home is the key.

b	Right.	sv	I think really is because if the home, does not place a high priority on education

sv	But there can still be an attitude of	b	Right.

sv	but the most important thing is still, you know getting your education.	^2	Your education.

sd	It's what's wrong with families .	aa	That's right.

b	Right.	sv	they don't know what to expect at home.

b	Right.	sd	For example that child that was shot.

b	Right.	qh	how can they concentrate on schooling?

b	Right.	sv	I think that's the main problem.

b	Yeah.	sd	And school's now are supposed to solve social problems, mental and emotional problems as well as educate the kids and try to provide them with some security.

b	Yeah.	sv	And that's overwhelming.

sd	And that's just really not enough.	aa	No.

sd	But, you know, part of my feeling is that if you help them to work through their problems while they're littler, then they won't have as many problems up there.	aa	True.

b	Really.	sd	We have always, though, had three at middle schools because we had about a thousand kids

b	Yeah.	sd	So they started, dividing the kids up so that a counselor stays with her group of counselees through you know, through all three years of middle school.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that would give them more security in going to the counselor.

b	Uh huh.	sv	If they have a rapport with their counselor.

b	yeah.	sd	And occasionally that happens.

b	Right.	sv	But, it is frightening

aa	it certainly is.	qh	and, if we have children who are not getting their education, for one reason or another, then what are we going to do with them?

aa	That's right .	qh	What's going to happen to them?

b	Yeah.	sd	And our prisons are filling up faster then we can build them.

b	Right.	sv	That's no good.

sd	I'm on that, campus strategic planning committee for my school.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Then I think they decided to strike economic.	b	Uh huh.

qh	You know will then people go to private schools?	b	Uh huh.

qh	and what kind of state are we in if most people are going to private schools.	sv	Well I think, one thing that we'll see is that we won't be educating everybody.

b	Right.	sv	There will be a lot of people who will not get even a menial education like in other countries of the world where they don't try to educate everyone.

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's one of the things that we do.

aa^r	That's right.	sd	We're the only country in the world that does.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And let everyone have an opportunity to reach higher education if they're willing, you know, to work and have, some ability.

b	Yeah.	sd	They can do that.

h	I believe it's something like that,	b	Uh huh.

h	And, I don't know .	sv	Well you know if we can keep them in school.

b	Right.	b	Uh huh

sv	That's so important,	sv	then that helps a lot.

sd	Well that new movie, That new movie out,	sd	It's scary to me.

sv	really, really a frightening situation.	aa	I, We are.

qy^t	So, well, shall we wrap it up?	sv^t	I would imagine that we've talked the amount of time necessary.

aa^t	I think we have to.	b	Okay.

fc	So I'll see you when we see you.	fc	Alright.

sd	and we went to hear, James wind ensemble concert	b	Oh.

sd	they left this morning for, England.	ba	how exciting.

qy	Isn't that wonderful?	na^m	that is wonderful.

b	Uh huh.	ba	What an experience.

o	For N I S T, the National Institute of Standards and Technology.	bk	okay,

ad^t	Let me push the button.	aa	All right.

sv	but, I sense that it's not going to happen anytime soon.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm at grad school now in acoustics

br	You're now in what?	sd^r	Acoustics.

b^m	Acoustics,	aa	Yeah,

sv	I suppose some things well happen slowly simply by having it taught in the schools more to the extent that that's happening, having a new generation come up that's more used to it.	aa	Yeah,

bf	They have to for international trade.	aa	Yeah.

sv	But, I guess it's easier to switch back and forth than it used to be, be , because of, of computers coming into everything.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	Everyone wants a conversion of that before kind of recognizing it as, as, as, as a concept to hold in mind.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean we're not the kind of society that, that something can be posed upon, by government will.	aa	Yeah,

sv	the, the public is just very conservative that way in refusing to change measurement systems, money, dollar, coins, anything like that.	b	Yeah .

sv	and, and , it obviously makes no sense that we're practically alone in the world in using the old system.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Well, I mean, unfortunate , I think people like you are relatively rare who are coming up against this problem every day.	aa	Yeah ,

sd(^q)	we have signs up on the N I S T campus here, speed limit twenty five miles per hour, forty kilometers per hour.	b	Yeah.

sd	but that hasn't been adopted very widely.	b	Yeah,

sv	I mean, and no one will go a step further to remove the english signs.	aa	Yeah,

sv	or, you have highway signs saying speed limit, eighty, eighty five, whatever would be the appropriate number.	aa	Yeah,

sv	you suddenly have a even worse problem with speeding than we do now.	aa	Yeah,

qy	do the schools emphasize the metric system?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I, I meant, I meant down, like, in the elementary schools.	bf	in the elementary schools.

sd	but it doesn't get emphasized over the other.	b	Yeah,

sd	So they actually have about three passes at this collection. One for the regular trash, one for the, you know, the bottles and cans and one for the newspapers.	bf	But I gather you do not separate, the bottles and cans.

sd	they do that on the truck.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Of course, you being from New Mexico, you've probably been to Washington. Especially if you're, your present location.	aa	Yes.

qy^d	You must have come to Washington at least once.	ny	Yes,

sv	I mean there's got to be a crevice between two mountains that nobody gives a doggone about that you could use for landfill. .	b	Ah,

sd@	other than nuking it. / *" of A.16 since it's not a clause or an answer to a question.	b	Yes,

sv	I don't think anybody around here would understand all the, all those exotic techniques, you know, getting rid of the heavy metals.	sd	And the thing that just was in the local news bulletin was, somebody ter , made some special, polymers that have the ability to, make certain actinide elements adhere to them.

sv	I think I think would get very, you know, they'd be very careful about how they bought stuff.	sv	I think that's a wonderful idea.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it would also cause people to compact their garbage more.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and limiting the volume is probably a little bit closer to the real problem than limiting the weight.

o	Well, credit cards .	b	Yeah.

sd	I'll tell you what, I can't say a whole lot about credit cards because I, tore mine up.	bh	Is that right?

sd	I have a, gas card that I use just for gas and you know, one that I use just for emergencies	b	Uh huh .

aa	I know it.	o	But, no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I basically never charge anything I don't have the money in the bank to pay for.

bh	is that right?	b	Yeah.

sv	that's a good policy.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but in most cases, I'm glad I don't because you know, unfortunately I, I, I don't have the control you have .	b	Uh huh.

sd	but but I don't.	b	Yeah.

sd	I just don't want to get into that situation again,	b	Uh huh.

sd	even with my gas card you know, I find that I'll go in to get some gas	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'll end up buying, you know, candy and drinks and you know, sweets and whatever,	b	Right.

sd(^q)	and I'm thinking what did I get, that costs so much.	bf	Surprising.

sd	but I can certainly understand where ,	sd	the thing that probably helps me most doing that is really, you know, not so much discipline,

qw	How, how old are you?	sd	I'm, thirty three.

b^m	Thirty three?	ar	Thirty two,

qy^d	You'll be thirty three this year?	ny	Yeah.

sd	It's coming.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I know what you mean about the interest rates. it's unbelievable.	sd	You know, that just irritates me so much that I refuse to pay them interest

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, you know, she could pay it off,

ba	jeez.	sd	and I just, you know, I just refuse to give it to them.

sd	in fact, I've, I've even, heard some people that have applied for credit cards with much less, rates and have paid off their, you know higher interest rate, cards and just sent them back, you know.	^2	Income.

sd(^q)	if you've got a pretty good credit rating you can call you know, your, your card, wherever you got your card from and tell them, hey, either drop my rates or drop my, you know, annual fees or I'll just go to somewhere else.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, and if you've got a pretty good history with them they're more than willing to do that.	b	Right.

sd	and he says you know, he's tried it with several of his cards	b	Uh huh.

^q	and yours is at, you know, eighteen or nineteen percent.	b	Right.

^q	and I'll go somewhere else and get it.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm not going to pay an annual fee.

qw	Well, what would you have at a dinner party?	sd	Well, lately, since I have children I've cut down on having dinner parties .

b	Uh huh.	sd	but when I do I try to keep it pretty simple on things that I can prepare ahead of time ,

ba	gosh, that sounds great.	sd	it's really good

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's one of my favorite things to serve.

sv	Well, I think it would probably depend on whether this was a formal or a informal dinner party.	aa	Sure.

sd	But if it was informal, my first choice would be crawfish.	b	really.

sd	but you know, I wouldn't have to worry about satisfying my guest.	b	Uh huh.

sd	shrimp fettucini is real easy to, make and everything	b	Yeah.

sd	so, I think on the lines of,	qw	Well, how do, make, how do you cook crawfish?

ar	I mean, well, you eat them dead	b	Uh huh.

sd	you can always tell whenever they're cooked if they've been dead for a long time because their tail straightens out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you're not supposed to eat those because they're bad for you.	b	Okay.

sd	but if the tail is straight on it then, yeah, don't eat it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, you just put some Cajun, well, lots of pepper	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, you know, if you have nails or anything you can plan on those being shot.	qy	whe , when you serve it do you shell them and then serve em too?

sd	it depends.	b	Um hum.

sd	Like like my age, if there was a bunch of college kids coming over for a dinner party, no, they would shell their own,	b	Sure.

sd	But there's a, There's a, big thing over here that everybody sucks the head.	o	Still have see that. * slash error Ooh . / * slash error should be 'ba'

sd	And usually you use those like for frying or to put in salads or to You know make a sauce with or something like that	b	Um hum

sd	and they're more expensive of course	qy	Does it taste a lot like shrimp

sd^e@	it really does * Looks like a slash unit to me I like shrimp better / * These seems to be independent of A.55 utt 2 above, not a continuation	b	Uh huh.

sd	It also depends on who's cooking it and how much seasoning they use stuff like that	b	Sure

sv	And also to get totally off the subject of crawfish lots of vegetables and hors d'oeuvres and stuff like that for a dinner party I think that that really helps	b	Yeah.

sd	That's what I need	aa	Yeah

b	Uh huh	sd	And before I had my second child we sort of had a contest going where  you know he would cook and then the next time it would be my turn and I'd try to outdo him and then he'd try to outdo me

ba	Oh!	sd	was really a lot of fun

bf	that got pretty competitive you know as far as who could come up with the best recipe	b	Yeah

sv	That would be fun	sd	it was a lot of fun you know

b	huh	sd	It was a lot of fun

bf	and sometimes it might be the picnic out back or something	aa	That's right

ba	Well you know that's fun	sd^r	it was fun

sv	That sounds right I would I'd take him up on that	aa	It does

b	Uh huh	sd	make hot dogs or some potato chips

sd	I'm doing a lot more cooking now than I used to	b	Uh huh

sd	but I usually try to stay out of kitchen	ba	that's nice

sd	not one of my favorite hobbies	sv	it can be fun if you have the time

sd	and they are absolutely delicious	b	Uh huh

sd	I would be interested in getting that recipe for you if you have it around	aa	Yeah

b	Oh	sd	it's real easy

b	Yeah	sd	so salt and pepper and chopped up water chestnuts which is something different

ba	that would be wonderful	sd	makes them a little bit crunchy

b	Yeah	sd^r	But it makes them crunchy

b	Oh	sd	So it's not a thick rich type of a sauce

b	Um hum	sd	And it gives it a bit of a different consistency

qw	Well how long do you cook the meatballs	ad	The meatballs after you form them fry them in a pan until they're browned on all sides

b	Uh huh	ad	and then drain off all the grease

b	yeah	ad	probably you have to heat it up for a good

sd	Especially I mean the fact that you can prepare the meatballs so far in advance	b	Right.

bf	I mean like if you are having a dinner party on Wednesday night you could do it on a weekend	^2	And then freeze them

sd	He's going to be working for Chevron in Houston	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know I'm sure that dinner parties will come in handy	aa	Yeah

sd	I have to impress the boss and clients cause I'm in public relations in school	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I'm going to have lots of dinner parties	b	Sure.

sd	and all the little bitty things that I didn't even know	b	Oh

qy^t	So Is there anything else	sv^t	Well I think we've covered the subject

sv	they're wonderful.	cc	I will

qy	did you watch the Bulls this morning?	o	You know what,

sd	They won by they won by two points.	bh	Is that right?

sd	and Isaiah missed a three point attempt, at the end	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I think the Bulls won by two.	qy@	Wow, don't they have the best record now? / * Shouldn't the "Wow" be an independent slash unit?

na	I think they do, as a matter of fact.	b	Yeah.

sd	One of the, commentators said that they expected that the Bulls would, if they continued at their current pace, set an N B A record for seventy wins in a season.	ba	Wow.

sd	they looked real good	aa	they do,

sd@	and I think they look like, they'll repeat, although, here in the Bay Area people are real impressed with what Don Nelson's done with the Warriors. / * Should "although" start a new slash unit?	aa	I know,

sd	and they were impressive.	sv	They look good.

sv	that was a good move for the Warriors to trade for him.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and and, they made a heck of a threesome	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they traded either Richmond or Hardaway to Sacramento for Billy Owens	sv	Good move.

h	and I don't know,	b	Yeah.

qy	is it Boston in, first place?	na	I think Boston's in first.

sd	They said they've lost a lot of squeakers.	ba	man!

b	Yeah.	sv	It's unbelievable.

qy	Do you, for example, like San Antonio in Dallas?	sd	Well, actually, the, the Dallas area here, pulls for Dallas.

bf	So there isn't much crossover,	sd	I mean, not a whole lot. You know,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, I guess it's kind of like, there in the Bay area, you know, you don't find a whole lot of Sacramento fans.

qy^g	because San Antonio isn't that close to you, are they?	ng	Really isn't,

aa	No.	sd	you know, it's, it's about the same distance from here to San Antonio as it is from there to Sacramento.

bf	so it's not something you'd drive,	sd	So yeah, it's not really a local, you know,

sd	I was thinking maybe David Robinson made a bit of a difference with kids and that sort of thing.	sd	he does a lot of local stuff there in San Antonio

sv	I mean, of course, drafting a franchise like him certainly,	b	Yeah .

sd	you know Magic was a franchise for the Lakers and, you know, Bird for the, Celtics	b	Yeah.

b	Well, yeah.	sv	Once he left, you know, it's just not the same, it's not the same team.

sv	And I think I think Jordan and the Bulls have to be, considered the likely favorites.	b	yeah.

sv	They were so disap ,	qw	Who won that Portland game?

o	All right.	qy	Have you ever been drug tested?

sd	 I had a job I had to go get a blood test for.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They just don't tell you they did.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I had one at T I and then one at another engineering company.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But that would probably bother me to wake up one day and find out halfway through the day that you're going to be drug tested and you didn't know about it.

sv	Well, I guess it depends on if you got something to worry about .	aa	Yeah.

nd	Well, I, I come from kind of a biased opinion because I'm a therapist and a drug and alcohol counselor.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I know the kind of cost businesses go through in terms of accidents, on the job that are specifically drug and alcohol related,	b	Right.

sd	and the only way that they can prevent that is, you know, making sure that the employees are drug and alcohol free.	aa	That's true.

sv	and, nobody knows about it,	b	Right.

sd	but you know, ends up costing the company lots and lots of money.	aa	That's true.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think they should be randomly drug tested.

b	Yeah.	sv	I believe, full force in that.

b	Yeah.	sv	I don't know that I believe every secretary in every company needs to be.

aa	True.	sv	You know, secretaries aren't really going to cost the company that much money if they fall face forward in their typewriter or something.

b	Yeah.	sd^r	So, I guess that's kind of biased.

sv	it's, I think one of the problems with it is it affects a lot of other folks on the job if somebody else is impaired.	aa	Yeah.

sv	you find out one way or another if somebody's got a problem on the job.	aa	Yeah.

sv	if her work or abilities start affecting her co workers then it's still a problem.	b	Yeah.

sv	I guess it comes with the turf.	aa	Yeah.

sd	So you're, you're breaking the law anyway.	aa	That's true.

sv	Probably the biggest problem with those is they don't do a real good job of assessing for alcohol.	aa	That's true.

sv	And that's probably the biggest problem there is .	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	They would pay for an alcohol

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they don't always pay for drug rehabilitation.

sd	If you do test positive for something they will give you an o , opportunity to go get your life straight rather than to lose you're job. / * you're > your	b	Yeah.

sv	I think the company benefits in the long run.	aa	Yeah .

qw	what kind of testing do they do when you went?	sd	it's a urine test.

b	Yeah,	sd	it was really very official.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that they're sure that you haven't borrowed anybody's, I guess, or something.

sd	Well, that happens.	aa	Yeah.

sd	It happens a lot.	sv	but I guess it does .

sd	there are people that pay other people to , to help them out.	aa	I know.

b	Yeah.	sv	It is amazing.

sd	They've got different degrees, as far as how far back they can check.	aa	Yeah.

sd	They've some companies that are doing, hair tests.	bh	really?

sd	and they can apparently test, back a certain period of time. Because some of the residue ends up in your hair follicles, you know,	ba	How weird.

sd	Hair follicles, I guess, are just dead protein	b	Yeah.

sd	They can go back and look at, in terms of growth in a hair, when you used and that type of thing.	ba	That's wild.

sv	So, I guess if they perfect that is not quite as cumbersome as having to go fill a bottle or give blood or something like that.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't even do it for Wadley, even though it's a good cause .

b	Yeah.	fc	Well, I enjoyed talking to you.

fc	Well, I did, too.	ft	Thank you.

fc	Uh huh.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	and, so, I thought that if I had a good hunting dog like Thumper that, I could just go out and get all kinds of game .	qy	Did it work? .

sd^e	except we live in Plano, Texas now	aa	No,

qy	Do you have a pet now?	ny	Yeah,

qw	What kind of cat is it?	sd	I got him,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he, he must be cross part with some kind of desert animal, because he's very long and lanky,

qy^d	Being born outside, you didn't have any problems house training him?	nn	No,

ba	That's good.	aa	yeah,

^2	And older .	b	yeah.

sd	and we sort of fell in love with the, Maine Coon cats.	sd	I've seen them.

sd	They're huge.	aa	yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	so they're very nautical, too .

sd	I didn't know that.	b	Yeah,

ba	Well that's interesting.	b	Yeah.

sd	but the Manx, is that the one that doesn't have a tail	b	Yeah.

sd	I kind of like that, too,	b	Yeah.

sv^t	and then I suppose our five minutes will be up.	aa	Yeah.

^q	I, I can just hear the dog crying for me now .	ba	I know what you mean.

o	All right.	b	Okay.

aa	Okay.	sd	We're from San Antonio

b	Yeah.	sd	it gets to about high seventies

b	Uh huh.	sd	And Monterey it's, right on the coast.

bk	okay.	sd	And it's, really nice.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we usually get a fog. right I guess, about four o'clock

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it gets very hot and dry

b	Uh huh.	sd	But along here it's, , very different from the Texas type weather.

sd	Well, right now we're we're having the little bit of Spring that we have.	b	really,

sd	It goes from Winter to Summer, usually.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we had one of those blow through tonight.	ba	well, that's good.

sd	And I think we got the same thing in the forecast for the next two or three days.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's gotten up to, ninety a couple of times.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, basically, it's been in the low seventies and eighties.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's not really been too bad.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Usually it sneaks on into the nineties a little earlier.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	quite a bit.	b	Uh huh.

sd	in fact we drove down to Corpus last week	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, there were still some paint brushes and bluebonnets down along the way.	sd	I miss that .

sd	and they had a big rainstorm come through there, part of the same thing we're getting now, I guess.	sd	well that's real nice because I can remember two years ago that in about February the hundred degree weather started in San Antonio and just continued.

sd	That's the second or third year in a row that we've had a real rainy Spring.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We had a pretty rainy Fall last year, as well.	qy^g	Y'all weren't getting any of the strings of the tornadoes and stuff were you?

sd	we've had a few down here, but not anything like Kansas.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But this is the season for that.	ba	gosh.

sd	they do pop up occasionally, around here.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm getting acclimated to have the cool evenings

sd	so when it's July and August, I'm pretty well used to the, hundred degree temperatures.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's that black clay soil.	qy	Is that what Dallas is,

sd	so it doesn't absorb the water real well.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, once it rains a little bit, it's filled up and everything else just runs off,	b	Uh huh.

o	you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	qy^d	I didn't realize that Dallas had that same problem.

sd	And there's a section in South Dallas that's had a whole lot of flooding problems because of the rain.	b	Uh huh.

b	Really.	sd	and they had a pretty good early Spring

b	Uh huh.	sd	so they're still talking water rationing this Summer,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the water in Medina Lake and that area was really going down, that they were considering that they might have to do water rationing

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I said, well, this is pretty much like Texas.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, it's a really nice area.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and used to essentially,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, to come here, it's kind of the temperate weather all year round.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it seems like we only have two Springs or two seasons

b	Yeah.	sd	We never really get any of the other ones.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it's a really nice, change of pace.

sd	I guess I'd prefer that .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	we do a lot of, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you don't have to worry about the high humidity.

b	Yeah.	qy	Does Dallas get high humidity?

sd	it's nothing like Houston.	b	Uh huh.

sd	or East Texas, is a little more humid.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it just seemed like every year it just got more and more humid . And here well it's right by the ocean,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, it's not the same as Corpus.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But here, well the water is extremely cold, up here,

b	Uh huh.	sd	for some reason, because of the cold, ocean, water, the air is always cool.

b	Yeah.	sd	It's just completely different

bf	Probably the Pacific breezes make a lot of difference,	aa	Uh huh.

ba	That's nice.	sd	So it's been good.

sd	and that was a real change for me.	ba	I imagine.

sd	And, they have, of course, some pretty severe storms, Winter storms, snow and that type of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But they're so good about clearing the roads, that, you know, it doesn't usually bother you very much.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It never gets real, real hot.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I've just never really been in that region of the country

b	Yeah.	sd	So, the people I know that are from there, they always miss it

sd	and there's a flash flood watch and, more rain for the next three or four days.	ba	gee whiz.

sd	Maybe we can send you some .	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, I enjoyed talking with you Lisa,	fc	Yeah.

fc	You, too.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye.

qo^t	Well, how did you like that topic?	sd	I don't know,

sd	I don't.	bf	No.

sv	I just don't think there's a place in our environment, you know in the work force for drugs, or alcohol either.	sd	Well, I don't believe in drugs or alcohol,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we were laughing that we'd have to go to that examination to prove we could read and write with a specimen of urine

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we found it belittling.

qy	You did?	ny	Yeah,

sd	but not being a teacher, as you are, you know, I was not quite as sympathetic you know, as I probably would have been if Kay were a teacher or something.	aa	That's true.

aa	That's right.	sd	it's supposed to be a huge problem with truck drivers using drugs and alcohol,

sd	and I think it is a big problem with them using drugs from what you read, you know,	sv	You know, in those areas I really, you know, do believe that maybe we should clean up our, you know house.

sd	And I think most of them have agreed to that now, although they didn't like it at first.	b	Yeah,

sd@	that is belittling, you know, I'd probably feel the same way if I had to do that. / * Parsing error? Shouldn't this be 2 slash units, with the 2nd starting at "I'd probably . . ."?	sd	But at the same token, in education we can't do random drug testing on kids

aa	that's true,	sd	you know, I mean, their rights are protected.

sv	gosh, they would really raise a stink if that was to happen.	qh	well, but if you're going to do teachers or professionals, why not do the kids, when we see them and they're, you know, under the influence.

sv	it's just our bleeding heart liberals that would fight it tooth and nail, you know	aa	That's true.

qy^g^t	I don't know how long we're supposed to carry on a conversation, do you?	sd^t	It's three minutes,

ad^t	well, we'd better keep talking because I've not heard it have we.	aa	Yeah.

qy^t	Have you heard it?	nn	No.

qy^g	Anyway, we both sort of agree on it, don't we about random testing.	qy	Well do we agree, or unless it's not me .

h	Well, listen,	o	You know, here we go again, I mean

b^r	yeah.	b	yeah, you know

sd	If you agree that,	sv	I believe that truck drivers and people that have,

b	Yeah.	sd	and there was an incident in my children's high school, where a teacher stayed drunk,

bh	Is that right?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	when I think of drug testing, I'm thinking of the, you know, outside of education.	ar	well, no,

sv	but, you don't think of that first hand, normally.	b	Yeah,

bh	Isn't that, isn't that mind boggling,	sd	It was on the news tonight.

sd	I know teachers are just like everybody else, same problems the same, good qualities as anybody else.	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	sd	because it does, you know,

qy^d	you think the benefit would be greater than the,	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	And that was in your children's high school,	ny	Uh huh.

bh	Isn't that amazing,	sd	And, you know, my children brought it to my attention.

sv	if it's if it was true there, I'm sure it's true with just about probably to some degree every school there is	b	Uh huh.

sv	you know, because they represent a pretty good,	sv	And that's not giving a good example to students.

fp	I'm in Plano, Texas.	fp	Hi Nola,

sv	Not too far away.	aa	No,

sd^t	I've had some from Plano, too.	b	yeah.

^h	let's see.	sd^t	social changes,

b^m^t	Social changes.	qw	what's that mean? .

sd^t	That sounds like not as recent social changes, too, like back to the sixties or fifties, I guess .	b	Yeah.

qy^t	Think we can handle that?	b	Yeah.

qy^t	shall I go ahead and push one?	ny	Yeah,

qy^t	You want to go ahead and start? .	sd^t	I was hoping that you would

b	Oh .	sd	In social changes is that,

sv	That involves a lot of different areas, I think.	aa	Y , Yeah.

sv	perhaps there's less of the middle range then there was.	aa	Yeah.

sv	Because of the way children are being raised, they're not learning the values they need to learn.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, I think we're seeing a lot of rebellion and things because of that and the things like the gang things that are happening	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	well that, I mean that's very, young for a baby.

sv	and they think they have to	b	Yeah.

sv	And, I think that if they didn't and it became more of the standard not to that, I don't know maybe companies would start paying men more so that their wives could stay home. {D You know? } And have a more solid, foundation for the kids.	b	Yeah.

sv	trying to do all these programs like Headstart and things like those. You wouldn't have to do that if mothers would stay home with their children and do things with them, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	They don't want to stay home with the kids or something like that.	b	yeah .

sv	There are a lot of two parent, situations where the woman goes back to work because that's what she wants to do, you know.	^2	rather than she needs the money just she wants the stimulating environment .

sv	so she does it partly because of the money but partly for herself, too . You know,	b	Yeah.

sd	Home school.	b^m	Home school.

aa	Yeah.	qr	is, is it like, a preschool level then or through grade school or,

sd	, I have, one going into fourth grade and one starting kindergarten and then a preschooler. And one on the way .	sv	well you sound busy .

sv	and a lot of it is discipline problems.	b	Yeah.

sv	it's really obvious to look at them and watch the way they act and things. That, they've been raised in a day care center.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, I think it's going to, change in the homes before anything changes anywhere else.	bf	When they're young,

sv	and maybe part of that is educating parents better.	b	Yeah.

o	Okay.	sd^t	The topic is to discuss the, sources where I receive news.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, for me that's mostly newspaper and radio,

sv	It was unusual not to have the different sources, you know, of news coverage.	b	Yeah.

qh	I mean, what's the other one, C B S.	b^m	C B S.

sd	They all were tapped into C N N.	qy	Were they?

nn	Uh uh.	b	Yeah.

sd	and like you I listened to radio on my job at work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, I listen to a Christian radio station.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we had some people from our church went to Israel, just for a, tour sort of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	so we got all fearful for our people, come to find out they came back and said they weren't even aware of it, / * Shouldn't a slash follow "our people", making this 2 separate utterances?	b	Right.

sd	and so it really made me question as to how do we know, you know, if the news we're getting is any good.	aa	Yeah,

aa^r	right.	sd	But, I'm from California

b	Yeah.	sd	but they get all blown up in the news.

sd	it just really gets me depressed, even to watch it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	you don't even know about it.	b	Right.

sd	but I don't read newspapers .	qy	Don't you?

nn	Huh uh.	qw	How come?

sd	And I live in kind of a bad area where if I have the paper delivered it's stolen before I can get out and get it .	sv	Gosh that sounds pretty bad to me.

sd	They just come by and pick them up even if it's just for the TV, you know selections of the day.	bk	I see.

sd	It just wouldn't be there whenever I tried it.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, they do.	b	Yeah.

qw	What part of California are you from?	sd	from Los Angeles,

bk	okay.	sd	But, I grew up in L A

qy^d	you work for T I?	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I'm in the computer business.

qy^d^t	This is your first call?	na^m^t	This is my first call. Because I just got my password.

b	really.	h	So I don't know,

sd^t	and they interrupt at ten, minutes.	bk	I see.

ad^t	So if we've done our three minutes. Let's just let the conversation end and say bye.	b	Uh huh.

fc	Nice talking to you too.	fc	All right,

qrr	or current,	sd	about the only memories that I have of boating,

aa	That's true.	sd	But, I found the motor boating was real fun.

sd	and just as that boat took off, a turtle bit me in the middle of the back.	b	Oh .

sd	I haven't managed to get a hold on that, craft yet,	sv	That sounds like a real challenge.

sd	but, just from what I've seen, you just kind of work your way up to it and turn around real quick , you know. Grab the rope behind you and then just let go real quick and let it whip you around.	b	Uh huh.

sd	maybe someday , I'll get back to that after the kids are up and grown and the monies are there to get away for times on end, weekend or something.	sd	Well, my son,

sd^t	I guess we're supposed to talk about what's being done about recycling.	aa	Yes.

qy^g	Well, lots, right?	na	Right .

o	Finally.	aa	Really,

sd	Well, we have saved our newspapers for years and years because the, Boy Scouts our boys have been involved in have, had a huge recycling bin, over at Resurrection Lutheran Church	b	Uh huh.

sd	like it's about a fifth of what it used to be	bh	really?

sd	so the Boy Scout troop quit doing it when the City took it over.	b	Okay.

qy	Do you live in Plano?	ny	Yes,

b	yeah.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	qy	Have you had yours now?

ny	Yes.	b	Yeah.

sd	Although just about a week ago some of my volunteer mothers that, work in the library for me said they hadn't gotten theirs.	sd	that's why I asked you.

b	Yeah.	sd@	you know, it does go in cycles, / *'

b^r	yeah.	sd	And I was so relieved because I've been making a real concerted effort, you know, recycling the aluminum and the newspapers and even got into plastic because Wal Mart collected it.

sd	we used to take ours there.	sd	my garage was just getting overwhelmed.

aa	I know.	sd	And, of course, I didn't go weekly,

sd	I do news, mostly newspapers and, plastic two liter diet Coke bottles . And aluminum cans some,	b	Yes,

sd	but I don't use as many of those.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess the ones that are hard to convince yourself to do are the ones that are really dirty that you have to wash out .	aa	Yeah,

ba	ha.	b^m	ha,

bf	Wasting all your time and effort and, Putting it in there.	sd	Thinking I was safe in buying those jars as far as the environment was concerned.

b^r	yeah.	sd	But, you know, but it's not that hard now that I've got this system under control.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	because let's see, they charge you for your garbage pick up by the weight.	b	uh huh.

sd	So if you recycle things, of course, then you don't have all that weight in there.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I don't know what they could do more of exactly around here right now other than,

b	Right.	qh	and, yet, what am I going to do when I have a couple double A batteries to toss out.

aa	right.	sd	And they don't take,

sv	Probably going to throw them in your trash .	aa	Yeah,

sd	but I wonder if they would take,	b	Yeah.

sd	kind of a pain to, you know, drive over somewhere special for two little tiny batteries	aa	Yeah,

aa	that's true.	sd	if they've got these bins for all the other little items,

sd	when I was home those few days around Thanksgiving and the truck came by, well, we all ran out to watch it because, you know, we'd never really seen it pick up our stuff	b	Uh huh.

sd	and one thing I thought was interesting was that the driver had something on his belt that he, scanned across the little bar code on our bin as soon as he took the stuff	b	Oh.

sd	so I don't know what that was reading it for	bf	Registering our garbage .

sd	they must be trying to keep track of , you know, who is doing it, or what, I guess.	b	Yeah.

h	I don't know.	qh	Wouldn't it be nice if you could get a credit back at the end of the year .

bf	for those who are really cooperating.	b	Yeah.

sv	Now, that would encourage it.	sv	Well, except I know it would just not be cost effective.

sd	now there is just one garbage man that comes on the truck instead of two.	b	Yeah.

sd	also, slightly off the subject, but our big green garbage thing got stolen.	bh	it did?

ny	Uh huh.	ba	Gosh.

sd	And they said that between three and four hundred have been stolen.	ba	my goodness.

qy	Isn't that sad? You know.	na	It is sad.

sv	and they must be, Yeah, really expensive.	sd	Or, our taxes do.

sd	I mean, of course, we were hoping we weren't going to have to pay for it, you know	b	Uh huh.

qw	What sort of benefits would you like to get from a big company.	sd	Well, since I'm kind of on the older side, you know, I, I just feel like, when I start talking about benefits, I'm concerned about medical benefits .

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, I work for, a bank, Western Financial.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, they don't let me know really about anything that's going on.

sd	and, actually I work for the F B I.	ba	my gosh.

sd	I'm an engineer. You know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and all the other employees are going to come around and see what sort of things we do. Which I thought was kind of interesting and, But, but that sort of thing.	aa	Yeah,

sv	But, I think you can tolerate a lot of problems if you understand what's going on.	aa	Exactly.

sv	In the private sector I would think that one of the major, situations, especially when you reach, you know, the mid fifties, is keeping a job until you retire.	b	right.

sv	But as you climb up that tree, pretty soon the branches get smaller on the top of the tree	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, I can get up,	aa	I know.

b	Yeah.	sv	And in thirty years it becomes pretty critical.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And because of the defense cutbacks and all that kind of stuff. And all the nuclear and stuff which is what he was working on. He's getting cut back

o	Okay.	b	Okay,

sd	mostly between the ages of two and ten.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I mean, they became like my children .	ba	I'd think so.

sv	Children are so full of energy.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, they just, the , they just keep you going .	qr	Now was this a one parent or two parent family?

sd	one parent.	b^m	One parent.

aa	Yeah.	qw	How much time did she spend with them?

sd	And she would get home at like five thirty in the afternoon.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then it was time for them to go to bed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he's like a little brother to me.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we get along a lot better now that he's older.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I feel like, I don't know, when I have children I want to be able to spend a lot of time with them.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	I go to L S U.	qw	And what are you studying?

sd	communications.	bf	Well, sounds like your getting a lot of experience in communicating with children .

sd^e	I mean, I love children.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think it was very beneficial to us.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and when I was younger I thought they were lucky because they got to get away with things, like I couldn't ride my bike across the street, but they could because they're Mom would never know it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But now I realize that it was better because, they have got into a lot of trouble, because of lack of supervision.	b	Uh huh.

ny	Uh huh.	qw	what base of communications would you be most interested in getting in to?

sd	Well, I'm majoring in, public relations.	b^m	Public relations,

ny	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, I would like to, stay at home with my children for at least the first five years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But what I plan to do in the future is, go ahead and get my upper education as far as my masters, and work on my doctorate and teach, college,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I'd like to stay at home with them until they get at least into kindergarten, where they're at school from what, eight to three or something	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I would be at my school, teaching.	b	Uh huh.

bh	really?	ny	Yes,

qw	What grade?	sd	I started out with college and then went to high school

qw	What did you teach?	sd	I taught physical education.

sd	I started out as a P E major, in education.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I sure did.	sd	I found that, it was a perfect combination from the standpoint of having vacations off at the same time.

b	yeah.	sd	and it worked out fine from that standpoint, plus the fact that, when I left,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he did get on the bus,

aa	Absolutely.	sd	well, I was in physical education then

b	Oh.	sd	and I wouldn't have checked on him.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	I listened to more than one parent say I don't know what this child wants.

bf	They need some attention.	aa	Absolutely.

sv	it's hard to make it on one income,	aa	That's right.

sd	we only had one telephone, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I feel like that it helped me now because I appreciate the value of the dollar,	b	Right.

sd	and I hope that I can provide that for my child too.	sv	And we need more of that,

aa	we have.	sv	And that I think has contributed much to, the delinquency that works grant and the poor school results that we're having. that the students, parents have just not really taken enough interest in them from the very beginning

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's too late then,

bf	It's way too late,	aa	Right.

aa	I agree.	sd	And, while parents very often will be involved with the school activities when the child's in the elementary school

sv	It is. Because all the peer pressure, it starts in high school	aa	Yes,

bf	and the parent really needs to be there for the child.	aa	Right.

ba	great.	sd	and we tried to be a part of it but not overshadowing him or making him feel that we had to be there all the time.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I feel that I learned a great deal from my students, with regard to what their biggest complaints were with parents.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I never ever said that because I knew that that was one thing that was really irritating to young people.

sv	Well, I guess that was good that you were hearing it from other students.	aa	Yes,

qy	Does your son work for T I?	nn	No.

b	Oh.	nn	No,

ba	goodness.	sd	He didn't even tell us. that he had three jobs

qw	what do you think is the biggest problem?	sd	The biggest problem, well, like in this part of town seems to be the attitude and the atmosphere in the schools that, you know, you can throw money at it,

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know,

qr	do you think it's the values that they're teaching in school or the values they get from home.	sv	well, the values, more or less at home and the T V, just a general,

sv	and, I think that that part of that showing up now, you know, with things because kids I think have probably less respect for people in other things, than we may have seen in the past,	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think that's, that's another root problem.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	I thought, well, you know, of course they're doing better, and not so much when I was growing up,

b	Right.	sd	And I wonder if, not so much that,

sv	but, you know, some that are they're, they're not quite the same as the kids that are going to the inner city, you know, public schools.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	people were sending,

sv	and, maybe they pick up on that.	b	Yeah.

sv	they may be able to give the resources that's needed to do a good job.	aa	Yeah,

sd	that's a tough question how to fix the school system.	b	Yeah,

sv	if you don't care about property and people, you know, you're not going to care about learning, I think. You know,	b	Yeah.

sv	you're not going to really care about yourself.	aa	Yeah.

b	Right.	sd	I mean, it's been a while since I been in high school.

sv(^q)	it's kind of hard to say, well, you need to take care of other people's stuff as well, when you barely have anything yourself.	b	Yeah.

sd	AIDS has more money than, breast cancer .	qy^g	well, that's interesting, isn't it,

sd	And yet we've had breast cancer problems for years.	b	Right.

sd	And, having thought about that for a while,	qw	What did you think about that idea?

sd	And yet men have been dying from prostate cancer for years.	bf	They've not really given it attention either,

sd	I guess there's just some strange public opinion as to who they want to give to. be it through different organizations, March of Dimes type, telethons or bicycle rides or whatever, how they fund whatever, illness they wish.	b	Right.

^q	so give it a tenth of that and just keep doling it out that way	sd	Well, I'm glad I'm not the one that's in charge of making those decisions.

b	Right.	sd	So I would hate to have that responsibility just personally

b	Right.	sv	It seems like one way or the other we're going to end up paying for it.

sd	But, we have such an affluent , society that I wonder if we took a little from here and there and the other if we might wind up with a cure for just about everything.	bf	Just change our p ,

sv	Of course, then we wouldn't have any room to put people,	aa	Right,

qh	but are they that enhancing for the masses, you know.	b	Right.

qy	and do you have a family?	ny	yes I am to, both questions.

qy	and do you and your wife have a budget plan for your finances.	ny	yeah

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we, enter those into a spread sheet

bk	I see. ,	qo	So what do you do?

sd	and we sit down and just write from the largest bills down to the smallest	b	Uh huh.

sd	I work part time at night	ba	Wow .

sd	and so } that does help,	b	Yeah.

sd	so it's pretty well ear marked.	aa	Yeah.

aa	Yeah .	b	Yeah.

sd	and divide those up between all,	bf	All the checks,

sd	and then the next pay check we're real short	aa	Right.

aa	That's true.	sd	before we started doing that kind of a thing, we were, spending, money for things that, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it was easy to, let things get out of hand.

sv	Well, it helps you to focus where your money goes	b	Yeah

sv(^q)	and then you're saying, my word where did all that money go.	bf	That's a lot of money,

^q	Where does it go?	b	Yeah.

sd	and we wrote down everything that we bought you know, every pay check	b	Uh huh.

sd	we should cause it does help.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh .	sd	it's just to, get up the money in advance and put it in, so long as it wasn't you know, unreasonably high, but for things like food expenses or whatever. Just put it in , in an envelope or whatever

b	Uh huh.	sd@	and that way it kind of forced us to, stick to that amount. * Should end with a slash. This is an independent clause, as is B's next turn. And then well , * should be start of a new slash unit see B.58 utt2 if the entertainment amount was gone for the month say, it's gone .

qy	have you developed a savings plan or I R A s or anything like that yet?	ng	we haven't.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We are just at a point where we could start thinking about it

sv	That's a good feeling .	b	Yeah.

sd	My husband just graduated from the university, a year ago	b	Uh huh.

sd	so finally finally we are getting to that point too.	bf	A student.

qy	So, are you still going to school	ny	Yeah,

fp	Hello.	fp	Hello.

fp	Hey, how you doing?	fp	Not bad,

fp	Fernando.	b^m	Fernando.

co	Let me turn off my stereo here .	aa	Sure .

sd^t	Because I've been, like, waiting, like, for about ten minutes to get connected to somebody.	bh	Really?

ny	Yeah.	fe	Phew .

qy	are you in Dallas?	nn	No,

bh	Are you?	ny	Yeah.

sd^t	Because every time I got through, I went to Dallas, Texas.	bh	Really?

sd^e	I'm in North Carolina.	b	Oh.

^2	On the other coast .	aa	Yeah,

sd	I'm watching SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE here.	b	Yeah,

qw^t	what did, how did you get to know about the T I thing?	sd^t	one of my instructors, said that they were doing something like this

qw	what are you working on ?	sd	a Masters in, information systems.

sd	I'm doing my Masters in computer science and computer engineering.	bh	Yeah?

sd	At North Carolina State University.	ba	Hey.

sd	and I'm in Raleigh	b	Yeah.

sd	all you have is like towns built around universities.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	Like Chapel Hill?	ny	Yeah.

qw	Where you at?	sd	well, I'm in Monterey, California right now .

sd	and that's about it.	br^m	Two hundred fifty?

aa	Yeah.	bk	Okay.

bk	okay.	sd	And it's only or a hour away you know, to a large city.

qy	Do you go to Berkeley?	nn	No,

sd	Because, I was looking at the, doctorate degree in computer science center at Berkeley .	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they're asking like for a, G P A of like three point seven or something like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And like they're looking like for, G R E like ninety nine percentile and this and that.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, it was like for me, it was like practically impossible to get between like ninety and, ninety nine percentile on the verbal part.	b	Yeah .

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I don't lose any sleep over stuff like that.

qy	So, are you going to go for your Doctorate?	nn	Probably not.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, most of the Navy funds that I probably won't do it until I,

qw	When do you get out?	sd	probably be another twelve years.

bk	okay .	sd	you know I like what I'm doing right now.

qo	but what if they pay for it?	br	Excuse me?

qo^r	What if they pay for?	qy	If they pay for a P H D?

ny	Yeah.	nn	Nah,

sd	Because I know a couple of people here that work for, the Army.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, {E I mean, } the guy is still in.	b	Uh huh .

sd	And, he works over in Maryland .	b	Uh huh .

sd	They gave him like a scholarship like for a year.	b	Yeah.

sd	And he's doing it in like, in a year and a summer.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, they said like they got a lot of benefits and that.	b	Yeah.

sd	That's why you want to join.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	I go why you still there if you can earn a lot more money, once you've get your, your Masters.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	They go, well they got a lot of benefits that would go with it	sv	Well, you know, a lot of times it's not the money that keeps people in .

b	Yeah.	sv	they like what they're doing.

sd	once you get your Masters, you can be earning anywhere between like thirty seven, forty five thousand a year.	b	Uh huh .

sd	And and that's not what they're paying.	aa	easily,

sd	I know .	sd	I mean, like I say, if you're, you know, if you're at an upper level in the rank category, you know, you're probably pulling down close to seventy grand a year.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	In I B M, you can get certain points	b	Uh huh.

sd	But nobody can get one more point to become, you know, like whatever you need to earn so much money.	b	Yeah.

sd	all the major companies get into a boating race, right?	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And so, I B M says well we have to have a team, right.	b	Uh huh .

sd	and they have this whole team, you know, analyze why they came in last right. Because the person asked for it.	b	Yeah.

sd	but, you know, it's like like one person does the work	b	Yeah.

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, everyone's a manager	sd	I didn't realize that.

sd	I mean, it's like the people that actually do the work there are, very few.	b	Uh huh.

qy	it's like have you, have have you ever seen the commercial like for Federal Express with, the think tank? You know,	^2	push paper around.

sd	and they can tell you where your package is anywhere, any time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, see, the thing is, that I B M is so stabilized that everybody will buy their stuff.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	And a lot of times you figure, you know, with the support that they provide, you know,

^2	and you're dead.	^q	why didn't you try something more mainline.

sd	Because what they do is they put you in a different job. Which you actually are like sitting around not doing anything.	aa	No.

sd	They never fire anybody unless you're caught doing something illegally.	bf	Illegal or something like that,

sd	like if you're stealing something or doing anything like that .	b	Uh huh.

sd	So they'll put you into keeping up the paper, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And then you say that's not my job,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so you quit.	bf	So, in other words, that's the way they force people out .

aa	Right.	sd(^q)	That's why they can say, you know, there's no layoff policy.

b	Right.	sd	But they don't really say that, you know,

b	Right.	sv	hey, that's kind of sad.

sd	It's like they won't say,	aa	No.

sd	And anybody can fix it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And so that's what you're going to go for.	aa	Yeah.

qy	Have you ever heard of Leading Edge?	ny	Yeah.

br	What?	sd	Leading Edge.

sd	they made like, small personal computers.	b	Yeah.

sd	But what they did, I don't know, is buy all the parts that I B M would throw away. And build an I B M P C with all the parts that I B M would throw away.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	Leading Edge will say we'll buy it from you.	b	Okay.

sd	I mean, they're still around I think.	aa	Yeah.

sd	and that's why they're so compatible. Because I mean	b	Uh huh.

sv	and by the time you have computer for five years, you're going to throw it away anyway. You know.	sv	Most people do.

sd	it's like, voice, synthesizing stuff.	b	Uh huh.

^q	And then when you tried to erase and correct, you know, all the errors in your voice, it takes up all your memory.	ba	Wow.

^q	I mean you put into Wave	b	Uh huh.

sd*	imagine what it is for us to make mark off models, you know.	ba	It's amazing.

sd(^q)	It's like, Jesus Christ.	sd	Well, you know, when you get right down to it, the more they can do for you, like I say, the more, the more memory they're going to require.

b^r	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's like once you have something,	aa	yeah.

sd	In nineteen seventy six NASA came up with Three D graphics.	b	Yeah.

sd	And they were showing this like Three D graphics view of like,	qy^d	Like the deal?

nn^r	no.	qy^d	Like a hologram?

sd	this is like video game stuff.	bf	With just graphics on a,

^g	Okay?	bk	Okay .

qw	Well what kind of car, are you thinking of buying next?	sd	more than likely, it's going to be a Chrysler.

qy^g	You like the Chrysler products, do you?	na	Chrysler LeBaron,

bh	Do you really?	ny	Yeah.

qw	What year is it?	sd	It's a eighty eight.

qw	And why don't you like the Mustang?	sd	I've had one problem with it after the other.

ba	I'll be darned.	sd	the paints peeling off of it,

aa	There you go.	sd	my electrical system shorted out like two or three times,

sd	She real , She likes those.	sv	those are nice cars.

qw	Well, what things do you consider when you buy a car?	sd	the gas mileage for one thing,

bk	I see.	sd	I, I hate driving anyway,

sv	especially when you're in high traffic areas and have to mess with that all the time.	b	Yeah.

bf	That makes it very frustrating.	sd	And I look,

qy^d	Now this is a LeBaron?	ny	yeah,

sv	they really look sporty.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but we bought it in eighty eight, you know, right at the end of the year when they were trying to get rid of them	b	Yeah.

sd	and we ended up, I think, with like a four and a half percent interest rate on a brand new car, and the payments.	sd	Well, that's what I'm paying on mine now.

ba	Well, that's great.	sd	But I got it when the eighty eights first came out,

sd	and if you'd buy a new Oldsmobile they'd give you four hundred rebate, because it was their seventy fifth anniversary.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I really like comfort, you know, driving along the road and stuff.	sd	Well, that's another big factor of mine.

b	Yeah.	sd	Because my Mustang is, is two door with bucket seats,

qy	is it Mike?	ny	Yes.

qy	Do you repair your own car?	na	I try to, whenever I can.

sv	Well, I tell you what, count your blessings because it really is good when someone can do some things to a car themselves.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, that's why I don't do as much as I'd like.	b	Right,

qy^g	Because I mean they've got, they've gotten complicated haven't they? .	ny	Yes.

bh	Is that right?	ny	Yeah.

sd	but I used to always change my own oil and do the points and plugs and,	b	Yeah.

sd	Course, they don't use, points anymore.	aa	That's right .

sd	But, they do still use plugs.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, now brakes, I've always done a lot of, you know, changing brakes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I could always do the alternator, you know, and starter.	b	Yes.

sd	but I have a lot of times.	b	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the parking brake failed.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that didn't do the trick

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I got there and tried to,

qy^g	It probably slipped loose, didn't it?	nd	Well, actually that wasn't even eventually the problem.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, eventually I brought it up to a place called Just Brakes

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it turns out that there's a,

qy^g	well, it really wasn't quite, as bad as you thought, was it?	ny	yeah,

bf	Well, it was a lot of money,	aa	Yeah,

qy^g	You had to have the help, didn't you?	na	That's right,

qy	Well, do you still do much work on them, then?	na	I do.

^2	Disposal is a problem.	aap	Well, that is one problem,

aa	That's true.	sd	For sixteen bucks they'll not only will they change the oil in ten minutes, and do you know, as good a job as I can do, but they'll, lube, too .

sd	I've quit doing that myself.	b	Yeah.

sd	but one of the main reasons was the disposal of the oil, you know.	aa	Yep,

qy	All right, do you do exercise?	na	I do,

b	Right.	sd	and sometimes my daughter will come along on her little bicycle.

b	Uh huh	sd	not every morning, it probably averages about two days a week

b	Right.	sd	and then with my wife I actually go to the gym and lift weights, which isn't, I understand, quite exercising,

b	Right.	qo	How about yourself.

sd	Well, that's a hard question to answer because I do physical things, but I don't always set out for them to be exercise.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but that's going to start soon again	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I play softball once a week, which is kind of more recreation than exercise.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think that's the basic point of it, is I, I don't enjoy it if I know that it's exercise,	b	Right.

sd	but if it's like a social activity or a recreational activity, I don't mind	b	Right.

sd	it's like feeding little babies food and telling them it's something else so that they'll eat it.	aa	That's right.

sd	I have to not know that it's exercise so I can do it.	aa	Right.

sd	if it's exercise, it's a task.	b	Right.

sd	I don't want to do anything I have to do.	bk	I see.

sd	but I won't do it if I have to do it.	b	Right,

sd	I'm twenty two.	sd	and so, it's interesting that as you get older you begin to understand that you need to exercise.

b	Right.	sd	My job at Texas Instruments, I have to sit in front of a computer all day and make phone calls, so, that, I don't get any exercise doing that

b	Right.	sd	and plus there's a build up of stress

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I need to go out and take those walks after dinner,

b	Right.	sd	so that's kind of a motivator,

bf	Eating right and no cholesterol and all that.	aa	Sure,

sd	I'm doing that more and more than I used to	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm getting better about this knowing that I need exercise and doing it, but it's still at the task stage.	b	Right.

qrr	or are you,	sd	something as simple as a walk with my wife is very enjoyable.

b	Right.	sd	I do that at the end of the day,

b	Right.	sd	Going to the gym is actually something different than, like,

b	Uh huh	o	Year,

b	Oh.	sd	so, running, I'm at that point which you probably get to after about six months of dedicated running where you don't feel your muscles any more

b	Right,	sd	and you don't think about the pain of it.

b	Uh huh .	sd	and that's no fun.

sd	I never got past that stage.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	I don't, I'm not a huge person,

b	Right.	sd	so that pays also.

ba	That's good.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I love her, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I guess that's one thing,

sd	I haven't really brought myself to go to the the gym, because that's very stressful to me,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I need to find some place I could go and not feel like there's all these people who are just huge and hulking that are ...	aa	yeah,

b	Right.	sd	I'll tell you, the sit ups and push ups are excellent you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you're, you're struggling against your own body weight

b	Right.	sd	you can have variety by putting your feet higher or lower, by putting your arms further apart or closer together, by doing them real quick or real slow

b	Right.	sd	and you can actually get a good wo ,

sd	we have a stationary bicycle and a stair step machine here at the house.	bh	is that right.

sd	I'll do those once in a while just you know, like at eleven thirty when Love Connection's on and I can't sleep,	b	Right.

sd	I'll get up and stair step for half an hour	ba	That's funny.

sd	but I don't have a regular plan, that's	b	Yeah.

sd	I need to get started on that.	arp	Well, you know, maybe not.

b	Right.	sv	When your life becomes sedentary is when you have to make yourself a plan,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and what's real funny about plans is that there's a struggle when you add something to your life, when you add a plan to your life,

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	and that's the hard decision, is, okay, if I'm going to run in the mornings, what do I trade it off for.

^2	Sleep .	^q	If I'm going to walk at night, what do I trade it off for.

b	Uh huh.	sv	or, you know, it, it's always trade offs,

b	Yeah.	sv	It's, I mean, not just exercise, but anything.

b	Right.	sd	And, I don't think you should worry about not having a program yet.

bf	That'll come some day when I,	aa	Yep.

sv	sounds good.	fc	Nice talking with you, Craig.

fc	Have a nice day.	fc	You too.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye.

sd	a lot of companies now are using, drug testing paraphernalia and drug testing situations to root out the either, elementary or intermediate or advanced, drug users.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I know the government you know, gives drug tests to all new appli , applicants coming into government.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and and so, but, sometimes, you know, drug use can escape that.	b	Sure,

sd	And, I have absolutely no compunction about, using any and all means to, you know, figure out or who has a drug problem and putting that guy into therapy whatever it is to, to, you know, break this, activity.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but getting stoned or high is the only thing in life that seems to be meaningful, then maybe there is no hope .	b	Yeah.

qo	What's your, feeling?	sd	well I guess I'm probably a little more toward the other direction.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Maybe a little longer.

sd	Well I think, the laws on, the first morphine laws were like ninety, or nineteen ten or nineteen five, something like that.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, it's hard I guess, for me to justify what seems like, you know, basically a breach of the you know, freedom from, search and seizure, you know, on something that may or may not stand as a law, you know, fifty years from now or even twenty or ten,

sv	Well, the thing of it is the, tha , tha , that, that is, in many respects, you know, just, I think, an over simplification.	sd	I mean, prohibition certainly didn't last.

sv	I think th , th , th , there's so much criminal activity, that people go into to support drug habits.	sv	Well, but you got to look at prohibition though.

sd	You know, they support drug habits with, you know, with things like, you know, burglary or prostitution or stuff like that,	aa	yeah.

sd	I I must admit that,	sv	And clearly if you're into coke and all you want to do is, you know, snort your brains out all day long, if it was legal, you could do it real cheap

sv	I must admit that the production costs of these drugs are zippo compared to the street market costs and the costs to society,	aa	yeah,

sv	as soon as you get rid of one goon that's, that's involved in drugs and tha ,	aa	yeah,

sv	and then another one will jump up.	sv	there's no way you're ever going to win that.

sv	but people want to, get stoned	b	Yeah,

sd	and I don't see that,	aa	Well, yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	I don't think you can.

b	Uh huh.	o	So, you know, yeah,

sd	I'm in Dallas.	b	Uh huh.

sd	There is a lot of theft, a lot of assault dealing with, people trying to get money for drugs.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, I think that's a national problem, though.	sd	it, it's pretty bad here, too.

sv	It's not unique,	sd	We've had a lot of murders drug related and stuff. In Durham, which is right next to Raleigh.

qy^g	Well, now, we're pretty close to the golden triangle, aren't you?	ny	Yeah,

bf	research triangle and all of that.	aa	Right.

sv	but, in all your cities now, it seems like there is a crowd that's really effected by this bill.	aa	Yeah,

bh	Really?	sd	Chapel Hill is kind of a ritzy city or whatever.

bh	Really?	sd	And over half of it has been drug related.

sd	a number every week.	b	Yeah.

sv	Seems like a lot of people don't hold human life quite as high as perhaps they used to.	b	Yeah.

bf	The economy is lousy .	sd	They've done special stories on the news, local news here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We had a lot of bank robberies and lot of break ins and stuff.

sv	Boy that really takes someone who is bold to do that.	aa	Well, yeah,

qy	Well, now, do you find that security is very good in a, in a town home?	na	I would say so for the majority in our, in my little section of the neighborhood because there is always somebody at home

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we all know one another

bk	I see.	sd	Most people are, retired

b	Yeah.	sd	so I really don't worry about anything.

sv	Well, I think you hit on one point there is you know each other.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, course, everything's down ten to twenty percent now.	b	Yeah,

sd	they're not nearly as selective as they used to be.	b	Yeah.

sv	so, I'm sure that aggravates it also.	b	Yeah.

qw	So Frank, what, type of, budget do you or your family have?	sd	Well, I don't know that we really have a budget.

sv	That's, sounds like probably a tighter controlled budget than what I have .	b	Uh huh.

sd	so. I guess, I don't know if that's an excuse for not having a tight budget,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it makes it a little bit easier.	aa	That's right.

sd	and also you know, I try to save a certain amount each month as well	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I am pretty consistent from month to month	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, whenever that changes I am pretty well aware of it without actually having to maintain a budget for it.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've got a money market account that I do a lot of saving in

b	Uh huh.	sd	Every month I add two hundred and twenty dollars to it.

b	Right.	sd	And I guess that's a way of budgeting.

sd	probably within a year I would like to buy a new car.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I am making every effort to put a little bit away and increase the amount that I need for a down payment or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sd	you know, we've got two cars.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, you know, I get one paid for

b	 Right.	sd	but you try to schedule those things so that, you're not paying for two at the same time I guess is what I am saying.

qy	Have you thought about, leasing?	na	Well, I have thought about it,

bk	I see.	sd	My wife uses hers just for pleasure

sv	But if you are rolling it over every three years, it might be advantageous to do that.	aa	Yeah,

sv	You know, typically, if you purchase your own car you tend to make, the best returns after you pay it off.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Of course, the longer you keep it beyond that point, the more profitable it is to own it yourself.	aa	Right.

sd	I had a number of expenses .	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I just went through that whole set last year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I hope that I only have a slow period before I do that again .	sv	Those things can really upset your budget when they come in.

o	Uh huh.	b	Okay

b	Uh huh.	qy	do you have kids you take to movies

sd^e	no kids.	b	Yeah.

qy	Was that the animated version?	ny	Yeah,

qy	Even better than ROGER RABBIT insofar as animation?	nd	Well, ROGER was a composite one.

b	Yeah .	sd	there's a movie I've seen, ROGER RABBIT.

sd	that was made I don't know, several years back, I guess.	b	Yeah,

sd	had Claude Van Damme.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was just mostly centered upon his abilities to	^2	Chop them up,

aa	exactly.	sd	This is supposed to be the guy that's, replaces Bruce Lee or whatever or, or the next Chuck Norris type of guy.

sv	You know how they can make any single one of them in a movie to be a super superstar of any sort, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but Chuck Norris, of course, could be just about equal, if not more	b	Uh huh.

sv	and all of them, I guess, could be in that fashion, or category.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and he got killed.	qy^g	Really uplifting, ?

sd	and then he moves on to L A to where she is to just help him out.	b	Uh huh.

h	I don't know .	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, it was worth the buck I guess.	bf	you went to the dollar movie?

b	Uh huh.	sd	I haven't seen that.

sd	I guess what made it so good was the cinematography,	bf	the wide open, the spaces,

sd	Everything about it was good.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but that was a well directed and acted movie.	bh	Is that right?

sd	It's a little on the violent side	b	Uh huh.

qh	but then what movie isn't anymore.	aa	Right,

sv	and it's a matter of your taste,	b	Yeah,

ny	Yeah.	sv	They just changed it because X had a connotation with it, you know,

sv	And even on those type they don't show what you expect.	b	Right.

b	Right.	sv	Really gory.

o	but what the hey.	b	Yeah.

o	This is America.	^h	Let me see.

b	Yeah.	qy	Have you seen that one?

sd	That was pretty good.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I don't have time to read the book.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	that's about all the time I can spare.

b	Yeah.	sd	All those underwater scenes.

sv	That's the magic of Hollywood, special effects.	b	Yeah.

sd	I hear this movie F X part two coming out is, pretty good.	bh	Is that right?

qy	Did you ever see the original one?	na	I didn't.

sd	but it's F slash X.	qw	What's that about?

sd	and he uses all of his special effects knowledge in doing what needs to be done.	bf	to fool people

sd	and using makeup and using the all the props and whatever to get to where he needs to go.	^2	All the tricks.

ad	But you need to rent the first one first.	qy^d	To understand what's going on in the second?

sd	I don't know if they have the, original actors on that first one to that one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I expected those.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean they were doing their dealings with that before they even got over there, I think.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they decide, make it Iraqis and Americans, you know,

bf	Actual names, will not be used.	b	Yeah.

sv	Eventually I'm sure they will come out with the, the, the proper names.	b	Yeah.

sd	Kevin Costner I understand is supposed to be play Schwartzkopf, supposedly.	qy	Is that right?

sd	That's just one of the many rumors that floats around.	b	Yeah.

sd	Or what you read.	b	Uh huh.

fc	And, we'll Talk to you on the next go around.	ad	Keep on watching those movies,

qw	Jimmy , so how do you get most of your news?	sd	Well, I watch the, national news every day, for one.

qw^d	So, when you say the morning news, or evening news or national news is when?	sd	every evening at six thirty, I believe,

sd	but I don't, subscribe to cable because of the poor service and also, because,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so I figured that amount of money I just donate to that.	b	Uh huh,

bf	something.	aa	Yeah.

qw	what, newspapers do you read?	sd	Well, I read, the local newspaper

sd	so she, you know, really needed to look at the help wanted ads	b	Uh huh.

sv	and so often they tr , the newspapers are trying to compete with a lot of other sources of news.	b	Right.

sd	but I mean, they say it's like the sixth grade reading level,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I swear it's at least second or third grade, sometimes.	b	Right.

sv	I think if you listen to like N P R or something like,	aa	Right,

sd	when I get a chance, when I'm in the car a long enough time to listen to it, because I,	aa	Right,

sd	one of them is leaving.	b	Uh huh.

qy^g	I guess a year ago you're probably watching C N N a lot, right?	na	Right

sd	Had that invasion or whatever it is.	aa	Sure was.

ad	Look at the Smith trial.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, that was a joke.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and he was just, I don't know, fixated on that, you know, just listened to it constantly.	b	Uh uh.

sv	but that's not really providing you news.	b	Right.

sv	it's more like a media event rather than reporting.	sv	Well, but the but the news, news that you would get from any other source is being generated from that event, which is something that's good also about C Span which I tune into every once in a while.

sd	That's kind of boring to me, I think.	aa	Yeah,

sv	they seem to be a part of life .	b	Yeah.

qw	how do you use them?	sd	Well, I do use them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have a few favorites that I use more than others

b	Uh huh.	sv	but occasionally they can get out of hand and get higher when you start using more than a few

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, they all can build up.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think they're handy.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I hate writing checks when you go shopping.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Well, do you use credit cards?

sd	I watched my grandmother go into debt on them	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I guess my mother,	b^m	Grandmother

sd	I use them so that I build up a credit rating, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we just keep a few you know, few of the major ones, and then use them once in a while for something,	ba	That's good.

sd	but we always pay it off right that month so that we don't pay any service charge.	ba	that's, That's wonderful.

sd	and we keep on top of what we're spending.	sv	Well, the interest rates in credit cards is so high now compared to what you're savings is bringing.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's really, I guess ridiculous to let them keep building.

sd	that's what I feel.	sd	But I know some people can get, you know, carried away with them and let them get out of hand.

sd(^q)	and I'll think, no I didn't know it was going to be that high.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But so far, we've been able to pay it off every time	ba	Well, that's good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I saw on T V, they had a program on, credit cards

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I went and looked to see what my visa was

qy	Have you ever used Discover card?	nn	No,

sd	I'm not even sure what their interest rate is since I pay it off	qy	Is that the one from Sears?

na	I think Sears originally put it out,	bk	Okay.

sd	And there's no annual service fee, which is good.	b	Okay .

sd	For the amount that I charge, I get two dollars back or something	b	Uh huh.

sd	but if you use credit cards a lot you probably get more back.	qy^d	they give you money back for using your credit card.

sd	That's it.	sd	I didn't know that.

sd	but, I'm not sure.	sd	Well, you know, Sears was one of the few department stores that never would take any other credit cards.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I worked at Sears for over ten years

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, you know, now they'll take the Discover,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I never did apply for a Discover card.

b	Yeah.	sd	I just figure with the Visa and American Express, I probably have an,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can do enough damage with those two.

sv	I think it's best to keep the number down that you have.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I do like my Dillard's,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I do use Dillard's probably more than any of the other department stores.

qy^t	Well, Do you have anything else to say?	nn	No,

sd^t	I don't think I do either	b	Okay

fc	Well, it was good talking to you.	fc	Good talking to you Beth.

fc	Okay.	fc	Good luck.

fc	Have a good evening.	fc	You, too.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qy	Have you got a boat ?	nn	No,

sd	but I've not had one the last couple of years.	bh	really?

qy	do you like boating?	ny	Yeah,

sd	so we decided to sell it.	sd	Well, I heard, that's the second happiest day of your life , .

br	What's that?	sd	The day you sell your boat.

sd^r	I loved having it.	b^m	No,

bk	okay .	sd	First best day is the day you get and the day you get rid of it

b	yeah .	sd	I just don't know if I'd have the time to use it.

sv	he needs his weekends free, to be able to use it or a day during the week or something,	b	Yeah.

sd	I had bought it used and kept it, , I don't know, ten years and got within, three hundred dollars when I sold it, of what I'd paid for it and had it all those years, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So you take care of them , they hold their value real well.	bh	Really?

sv	So, you know, you couldn't complain about that.	qy	Did you go fishing?

sd^e	it was a , big boat, big ski boat type thing.	bk	okay.

sd	I had a hundred sixty horse, Murcruiser in it.	ba	wow.

sd	but I'm not too much of a fisherman.	bh	Really?

sd	but I but I did enjoy owning a boat,	b	Yeah,

qy	Have you been sailing?	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Nothing big.

sd	But I'd want to be with a skilled sailor .	aa	Yeah,

sd	I've never wanted to bad enough to make any effort to do it, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, at this stage of the game, I'm not that interested in it anymore.	bk	okay.

sd	and parents' next door neighbors have a big barge	b	Okay.

sd	so we we get out on the water occasionally, you know.	ba	that's nice.

sd	and I'd have to go load it up the next day.	qw	Where is that?

sd	Mount Vernon.	b	Yeah.

sd	Cypress Creek Springs.	bk	Okay,

sd^e	it's down at Mount Vernon.	bk	Okay.

sv	It's probably the prettiest lake in the state of Texas.	bh	Really?

sd^e	it's just a hundred miles from here.	qy	What do you take, I Thirty five?

sd^e	I, you, you go down, yeah, thirty, thirty.	b^m	Thirty.

sd	It's east of here.	bk	okay.

sd	Hundred miles due east of here.	bk	All right.

qw	Where did you all move from?	sd	Colorado Springs.

bh	did you?	ny	Yeah.

qw	How are you liking it?	sd	we love it up there .

ba	Well, good.	sd	That's where I grew up .

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, we like it down here pretty good.

sv	but, of course it's hard when you don't have any family around.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and it's kind of tough when my folks call and they want to see them .

qy^d	and your wife's folks still live in Colorado?	ny	Yeah.

sd	there are supposed to be, some people moving down here from Colorado Springs for T I.	bh	really?

sd^e^r	supposed to be.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Do you work at T I?	ng	I don't,

b	Uh huh.	sd	a friend of mine's dad was a program manager up there

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he just moved down here to Mc ,

sd	My wife does .	b	Okay.

ad	So, tell me the last time you went for a boat ride.	sd	Well, actually, I went, canoeing down the Brazos this weekend.

sv	That had to have been fun.	sd	It was fun,

qw	What kind of car would you like to buy next?	sd	Well, I guess Cadillac.

qw	Well, why would that be?	sd	I guess it's a General Motors product,

ba	well that's good.	b	Uh huh.

qw	If you had, no financial requirements, if you could buy any car in the entire world, no matter what it cost, what would you buy?	sd	I think I'd still go with the Cadillac.

bh	Do you?	sd	I don't care about a big fancy .

qw	Which type of Cadillac, is your favorite?	sd	I don't know.

b^m	The Seville.	b	Yeah.

sv	That's a sharp looking car.	b	Yeah.

sv	it always has been though. You know,	aa	Yeah,

sv	It's always had it's own unique look.	b	Uh huh.

sd	a couple years they had where the trunk head would look like belt buckles across the back of it.	aa	yeah.

sd(^q)	I thought, now that looks sharp	b	Yeah.

^q	that looks real sharp.	sv	Well, I think the ones now with all of the, fancy gold lettering and all, you know, I think they're very pretty.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And course the vin , what is it, a vinyl top, I think those are pretty.

sv	but they're supposed to be just real smooth.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Just a nice comfortable ride.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv^r	they look like they're very sturdy,

sd	It'll go underneath the car instead.	sd	I didn't know that.

sd	So that's a big safety factor they've got in them now.	b	Yeah,

b	yeah.	b^m	The air bags,

ba^r	that's great,	b	Yeah,

qy^d	So you say you've always have preferred General Motors products .	ny	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	Help our economy

qw	What kind of, General Motors cars have you had in the past?	sd	Mostly Oldsmobiles.

sv	Those are real nice riding cars too.	aa	yeah.

qr	Has that been the Cutlass or the Sierra?	nn	no,

bk	okay.	b	Uh huh,

qy^g	now that's got that big V eight engine in it, doesn't it?	sd	Well I don't know.

br^m	Has a little V Six?	aa	Uh huh.

bk	Okay.	sd	But it's a very good car.

ba	that's great	b	Yeah.

sv	That's always nice to get, reliability in a product. Especially when you're spending, you know, anywhere from fifteen to twenty five thousand dollars for a single item. You know,	b	Right.

sv	you just don't want any hassles with it.	aa	No.

sv	and I think a lot of car manufacturers don't take that into consideration you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	but that's been a key factor in me, is how reliable is this car going to be you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's not the most important issue.	aa	No,

b	Right.	sd	but I, I would go with the General Motors any time.

sd	Well, I've always been a Ford man, myself.	bh	really.

sd	But that's all right.	aa	Yeah,

sd	You know, it's American made too which is good.	b	Right.

sd	So everybody has a truck	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've just never had problems with them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I honestly think I would die before my truck would, keel over on me.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	You said you have four cats?	ny	Yes,

qw	How old are they?	sd	Well they range from, let's see about a year and a half to nine years old.

b	gosh.	b	Yes.

sd	I've had him probably five years.	bk	okay,

sd	I lost one, one time,	b	Oh.

sd	He jumped off the balcony actually, of a second story apartment.	ba	no.

sd	And he'd never been outside, like, you know, by himself outside.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, you would have thought a child had died.	b	Yes,

sd	I had every friend I knew in the apartment searching for this cat.	b	Yes,

sd	they thought that was so hysterical.	ba	no,

b	yeah.	sd	my boss thinks I'm absolutely crazy.

sv	it's hard.	sd	and then when we go to sleep at night, you know, it's like my husband and I have to try to get any space on the bed because we have all four of them up there with us.

ba	how funny.	sd(^q)	It's like all right, whose corners is this one.

sd	the other two cats I have are outdoor cats.	b	uh huh.

sd	But the first one I got he doesn't want anything to do with outside unless you're there.	b	uh huh.

sd	If you shut that door he goes into hiding.	ba	no.

sd	I think it's from the time he jumped off the balcony .	aa	Yes,

sd	He's probably been through all kinds of nightmares.	aa	Right,

am	Probably.	b	yeah,

bh	Are they.	sd	We started out with two outdoor cats

ba	no.	sd	well he lived through it,

ba	my gosh.	sd	the cat almost died,

ba	I imagine.	sd(^q)	And he's like thank you so much.

sd	I wonder how many of his lives he missed, when that happened.	aa	I know,

qw	what did he shoot him with.	sd	well, from what we can tell it was a pellet gun

sv	People are crazy.	aa	yes,

ba	Lord.	sd	I mean he started off as a stray

ba	man.	sd	But he's been a wonderful cat.

sv	It seems to mellow them or something.	aa	yes.

aa	No.	sd	there's this, they just fill this void.

sd	I keep talking about getting rid of my outdoor cats because I feel like I can't take care of them as well because they're outside,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it worries me that one day one of them won't come back,	aa	Yes.

sd	But I can't give them up.	aa	no.

sd	I go hysterical when they don't come home.	aa	Right

sd(^q)	and every time you see one hit on the side of the road you say is that my cat.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you go crazy thinking it might be yours.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, well I fell in love with this, it's a Chinchilla Persian, and, brought him home,

ba	Ugh!	sd	and my husband just died.

b	Really.	sd(^q)	It was like we can't take it back

sd	It took me about two weeks to realize, that was real lonely.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and, actually it was on a sign at Taco Bell drive thru that said free kittens.	b	uh huh.

^q	I'll call them.	b	Right.

sd	and his mother had been killed coming back across the road to make sure she'd gotten all her kittens.	b	uh huh.

sd	the whole big sad story.	b	Oh.

sd	I felt so sorry for him after that.	b	Right,

sd	And you can tell he was weaned too young because he'll nurse on your ears and your fingers.	ba	no.

sd	and he said he was probably weaned too young, which he was, because his mom was killed,	b	Yeah.

sd	people who don't even like cats, like him.	b	Oh.

sd	I had him declawed,	b	uh huh.

sd	he's just kind of there, real friendly and docile.	ba	that's good.

sd	we call that doing biscuits,	b	yes,

sd	it looks like their kneading bread . / * spelling "their" should be "they're"	sd	it just drives us nuts.

sd	I had, I had a dog when I lived at home	b	yeah.

sv	but they're a lot more trouble than cats actually.	aa	They really are.

sv	they do.	sv	but they're so much fun to watch them play.

sv	it's so funny to get more than one cat together, because it brings out their personalities.	b	Yes.

sv	And they just act so funny.	sd	we've got,

b	Really.	sd	And, they, will get to playing chase through the house,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it is hysterical, I mean

bf	A train of cats running around.	sd	I mean it sounds like a train.

sd	I love them to death.	aa	no,

qw	What are your cats' names.	sd	we have, Bonzo, Bear, Poindexter, and Felix.

ba	how sweet.	qw	And what do you have.

sd	I have Xanadu and Precious, and Rascal.	b	Oh.

sd	Precious is a medium hair yellow cat,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and Rascal is a black and white short hair.	b^m	Nothing.

sd^r	They don't look a thing a like,	ba	Not a thing, goodness gracious.

sd	and they came from the same litter and everything.	sd	We have, tortoise which is a black and orange.

b	Oh.	sd	And she's so ugly.

^g	right.	ny	Yes,

b	Really.	sd	I mean it's like nobody messes with her mamma.

b	Oh.	sd	And, I mean, it comes bedtime

qy	Is she the oldest one?	ny	Yeah,

b	Really.	b	And so yeah,

sv	it's like the end of the world.	sd	It will be.

sd	I know that's how I am about Xanadu.	ba	goodness.

aa	definitely.	sd	My mother has dogs

b	Yeah.	sv	This is nothing like cats.

sv	but cats are good all the time.	aa	Right,

sv	that would be a problem .	sd	that's one of the requirements I asked him.

qy	do you ever read COSMO.	ny	Yes,

sd	It was so funny.	b	yeah,

^q	Watch me.	aa	Right,

aa	Definitely.	^q	I'm sorry,

sd	There'd be no way.	sd	The whole family was so disappointed .

o	well.	b	Right.

o	that's how life goes.	aa	Right,

fc	Well, it's been nice talking to you.	fc	Well it was nice talking to you too,

fc	bye.	fc	Bye,

qy	Are you, involved at all?	nn	no.

b	Yes.	h	I don't know.

b	Yeah.	sd	Because you know, like, there was an incident several years ago where an Amtrak engineer you know

b	Right.	sd	he crashed and killed some people because he was, smoking some marijuana

o@	and I'd, * slash error Yes.	qy^d	So it's the government that's mandating it to a certain extent? .

sv	So we'll just accuse everybody of using drugs and, make it all even.	b	Yeah.

sd	it, certainly has no life threatening, capabilities you know, in my job.	b	Right.

sv	and, and there needs to be a line drawn somewhere reasonable and proper.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but it's fairly simple.	bf	Kind of a coarse kind of test.

sd	And then there's a much more, refined test, spectrography or whatever it's called. The chemo , chemotography to determine exactly what the things are.	qy	Is that done,

sd^e	I've been with this company for sixteen years now.	bk	Okay,

qo	What do you think? .	sv	I don't think so.

sd	but then then, you know, the defense lawyer addressed each and every one of those blows apparently	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, the other two guys sat in the car	sv	that's bad .

sd	and they didn't get beat up. You know.	aa	No.

sv	Rodney got beat up because he, you know, he pur , you know, he involved himself in some self destructive behavior.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, just like the burning and looting is self destruct.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	Everybody says well this is the nineties	aa	yes.

qh	you know, some black guy with capital is going to come in and invest in that area?	aa	That's right.

sv	With everybody with that mind set. They, they're they're going to, that whole area is going to be turned into residential ghetto, you know,	sv	They're only going to suffer.

sv	and you might even be able to use it for a bombing test site, you know.	sv^r	they're only going to suffer.

sd	I mean there are forty people that are dead as a result of that.	aa	I know.

sd	And I'm just trying to determine, you know, how you weigh, you know, Rodney getting the hell beat out of him against, you know, forty deaths.	bf	Against forty other people being,

sd	And I'm very upset that the news media has not identified those deaths and pursued it, you know, because I'm interested in the circumstances surrounding this thing.	b^m	Those deaths.

o	no tears.	qr	Or just an innocent bystander or somebody got actually beat to death or what.

sd	You know, you see film of people being pulled out of a car and shot, you know, in the street.	^2	or beaten.

sd	No one would have stopped me.	b	Right.

^q	and I don't think like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm a government employee.	b	Oh.

sd	I'm with the F B I.	b	Oh .

sd^t	and so, and, and the reason I'm doing this whole thing is because Rick, whose another government employee wanted segments of my speech, that that were done a year ago	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	and he wanted another collection a year later.	b	Oh.

sd^t	A year ago I did eleven calls.	bk	I see .

qy^g	that was it, right? .	na	Right.

sv	I mean, everybody, not just like, you know, poor people and all that, you know. But, you know, senators' sons and all that stuff too.	aa	Right,

sd	I just don't know if, you know, I was eighteen or whatever, I'd want to be stuck doing it for a year or whatever.	sd	I'm not sure I want an eighteen year old to make that kind of decision.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know how old you are,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I could see that many of them had conscientious objections to war or whatever.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I guess I see that as not so much a demand but a privilege.

aa	It is,	sv	since we live here and we all benefit, rich, poor or in between, there are benefits even for those who have it the hardest. I just see that as maybe a good idea.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I find ways to turn some of that back to others.

h	I mean, you know, I don't know .	sd	I could see a full, a run , a gamut of different kinds of opportunities.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't, imagine what kind of, bureaucracies we'd get into and expense having it be full time,

b	Yeah.	sv	it was needed,

b	Uh huh.	sd	everybody has to put in so many hours of, public service in a given time, perhaps.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I guess I see all of us benefiting,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Something that they turn, back.

sv	and also, you know, you feel more like, you know, you're actually part of the community if you've done something, in it.	aa	That's right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I see it being most beneficial if it's in or, or at least the area where the person lives.

aa	definitely.	sv	It might not be the same neighborhood, but the same city or county, because then you're coming in contact with it.

b	Yeah.	 sv	it almost needs to be something that has more impact for the individual, on going.

b	Yeah.	sd	But as far as putting that into work, I don't want to deal with the heartache of, first of all, getting it started and figuring out how to do the logistics, of it.

sv	And I mean, just getting it going.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I, see a lot of things like, scouting, Boys Clubs, Girls Clubs, things like that, that kind of get into that citizenship, the looking after the environment sort of thing

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I guess, I don't see, this being that different. But even more beneficial because it would be something that everybody participated in, and would take a turn in.

b	Yeah.	qy	Do you have kids?

sd	In about six months we will .	ba	well good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know you've got to get past that grudge attitude that many have,

b	Uh huh.	sv@	The adults, ahead of it would probably never serve and to each succeeding generation. There definitely would have to be a major P R campaign in each community, each county, * This is clearly 2 slash units. Why wasn't it parsed that way? parish or however the state was divided up.

b	Uh huh.	h	well I don't know,

sd	They have, that here.	h	I don't know,

sd	and, there was a, * end of slash unit? Yeah. / * should be indepedent slash unit	^2	and there were those that said, No,

sd	Well, it was interesting because that's an interesting question, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think they finally decided not to because they figured that stretch of highway was going to get trashed .	b	Oh.

sd	I don't remember for sure now.	h	And I don't know about your part of the country,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I work for Texas Instruments.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And they've started some recycling campaigns that a year before that had been turned down because they said, Well, it's not feasible,

b	Uh huh.	^q	it's not a good idea.

sd	but then they lost, too much business .	sd	It's just, a part of everyone's consciousness.

^q	and even if it's not environmentally safe, who cares, you know.	sv	I'm sure the pendulum will swing the other way.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, it is comforting to me to see, more concern about some of these things that cost us money.

sv	it's just probably a good thing that the oil's burning and may, make some people realize that hey, you know, this stuff runs out.	aa	that's right, because,

sv	Of course, that's probably blasphemy for you to say, coming from where you are in Texas.	ar	no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And as soon as the oil prices came back down, the pendulum swang the other way.

b	Right.	sv	And we need those reminders.

b	Yeah.	sv(^q)	or we'll suddenly be in the dark and say, my goodness, now we don't have the ability to go on to some new technology.

sd	so, You know, we're acutely aware of a lot of this.	ba	Ah!

sd	so you know, I wonder sometimes if he knows what he's doing.	sd	just about anybody you could name, whether I voted for them or not, makes, decisions that I just can't go along with.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But that's why they're there and not me.

sd	well, I like to cook,	sd	I do too .

sd	but I don't like getting too awfully fancy about it, just because, it's too much pressure. You know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	if I have people over for dinner, I like it to be nice and relaxed.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And so I don't like or, or when they arrive, for me to be completely worn out.	sd	I like doing things like making lasagna just because I can have it ready and baking in the oven,

aa	Exactly.	sd	everybody just says how wonderful it is,

b	Yeah.	sd	That's one of those things I got famous for in college.

b	Uh huh .	sd(^q)	It's like, well, I can't really give you a recipe,

bf	you'd just do it.	^q	I can I can just do it .

b	Yeah.	sd	And it's fun,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We just had a bunch of people over

ba	Boy I like that.	aa	I do too, in fact .

sd	and naturally this is appropriate because I'm planning dinner for people tomorrow night and then the next night.	b	Oh.

sd	So Tuesday night there'll be eight people here altogether.	sd	actually one thing we have done quite a bit through the holidays, just because it's real easy, is just baked potato dinners.

b	uh huh.	sd	And have, you know, like three or four couples come over,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it turns out great, because I mean, you've got like hot sauce and taco meat and barbecue and, you know, bacon and all that good stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it's inexpensive

b	Yeah.	sd	plus it's real easy on the hostess, because you can just have the potatoes ready, and just have a salad with it,

sv	that's a good idea.	sd^r	it's real easy,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm in favor of very little clean up, very little planning because we've got three or four couples that we get together with to play games,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we invariably end up at my house since I've got two kids.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And it's, it's fine, because then I can just say, Okay fine,

b	Yeah.	sd	And it's pretty cool.

sd	Well, one of my favorites if I don't want to have other people bring stuff, I just want to treat them is to make chicken and rice.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's very easy to.	b	Oh.

qy^d	You don't like it?	sd	I love it .

sd	and then you just.	qy	Over the uncooked rice?

sd^e^m	over uncooked rice	b	Oh.

sd	and it just.	ba	how neat.

sd	and it's really moist.	sd	Now I've done it where you cook the ri , well, I guess you probably could do it same way, but cook the rice and then take a can of like cream of mushroom soup or cream of chicken soup, and put a little bit of white wine in it.

b	yeah.	sd	And every once in a while, I'll slice white grapes

b	Yeah.	sd	And then just bake it,

cc	Well, I'll keep that one in mind.	b	Yeah .

b	Yeah.	sd	that was one of the first things I made for my husband, because I was like,

b	Yeah.	sd	I could actually find something I could cook real easy that would be sort of elegant kind of .

bf	you can get away with it even having a semi nice dinner,	aa	yeah.

sv	or, you know semi .	sd	But then, I hadn't thought about doing it with uncooked rice.

b	Yeah.	qy^d	So, just, like in a thirteen by nine pan.

sd	you can really vary it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think it was three quarters cup rice to two cups water, two cups, broth.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	Now that would be good.

b	Uh huh.	qw	How long do you have to bake it?

sd	I've done it in the microwave so often lately because, it's really easy.	sd	I do microwave too, a lot .

sd^r	But, I think it's about an hour.	qw	How long would it be how long would it be in the microwave?

sd	until the rice looks fluffy, and and not overdone. You know, before it gets overdone.	bk	okay.

ny	Yeah.	qrr	or do you go ahead and let it cook through?

sd	I'd let it cook just a little bit just so that the cooking goes a little faster.	sv	this is a beneficial call.

sd	I liked your idea too, there.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	ad	put in garlic and onion powder or chopped onions if you want to do that, you know. What ever, however much effort you feel like putting into it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it makes a great,

b	Uh huh.	sd	because my daughter calls it her gravy

qw	So how do you just figure ,	sd	Well, you know, it depends upon our weather here. You know,

ba	Wow.	sd	it's a, ultra suede skirt and a blouse with a sweater, cardigan over it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because I had some appointments at the office today, some interviews

b	Uh huh.	sd	But when it rains a lot, which is has been doing here a lot lately, very often, you know, wear, pants and boots you know.

b	Oh.	qw	So how do you dress?

co	Well, I'm going to talk about when I was working as a teacher and when I was working at now.	aa	Okay.

sd	when I was a teacher, in Utah, I would generally wear, dresses and heels and things like that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I wore heels anyway .	b	Yeah.

bf	it might kill you to go up and , walk up to the door	aa	That's right.

bf	but you're going to look nice for the kids .	aa	That's right

sd	Well, I need all the height I can get .	aa	Yeah,

sd	but then I would change, into heels, as soon as I got to my desk.	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh.	sd	And we wear them a lot with shirts and things.

b	Oh.	sd(^q)	As I have a private high school that I run here when I'm interviewing a parent, of course I feel like I need to wear heels you know, and look like I'm a business person. You know, because the children will tease about where's your motorcycle, if you wear boots too often, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	Of course, you probably wear coats a lot.

sd	So I did,	ba	my goodness

sd	so it was nice .	aa	Yes.

ny	uh huh.	sd	But of course, here we wear a light weight jacket a lot you know, you know,

ba	that's nice.	sd	and, that's very seldom

ba	Nice.	sd	It's really different.

sd	and, I'm working at a day care right now.	bk	I see.

sd	And so the way I dress is really different because I'm working in the nursery room with kids from six months to like twenty months.	bf	so you don't wear heels anymore I'll bet.

sd	I wear, tennis shoes, and jeans and things that, you know, are sort of,	b	Yeah,

sd	it doesn't matter if I have to wash it a hundred times or something.	qy	When you were teaching, did you ever have, a blue jean day or anything like that?

sd^e	but I never wore jeans because, I thought that was too casual .	b	Yeah, well,

aa	really.	sv	It's all right for the students,

sd	but I've seen. A lot of things I'm not used to yet,	qw	Where did you live before?

sd	and I grew up in California.	bf	well, that's quite a change from California to Utah,

sd	T I is a very casual atmosphere.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, on Monday I wear the worst looking one . Because it doesn't seem like people ar , you know, are that alive on Monday, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	but mostly what I wear are skirts and blouses or, you know, skirts and, pullover sweaters or, you know, little two piece dress suits like,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I've never thought about wearing your worst outfit on Monday, because really no one's paying attention.

b	Right.	sd	Like, in the warm weather it's always shorts and a t shirt or a button up or something like that

sd	also, I mean there's you know, hundreds of people work for T I.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, you know, a lot of people like those that work in the legal department for the real, higher ups, like the, lawy , the T I lawyers, and, those that work for the higher executives, those secretaries. they really dress up all the time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So there's a good combination in the hallways all the time, you know .	sv	Well that's good that they're so casual.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, my brother works for T I

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And, you know, whenever he was going to school, he was expecting to having to wear, a tie or a dress shirt everyday.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he just loves it.

sv	And that's very acceptable at T I.	b	Yeah.

sd	I believe at I B M they make you wear a blue suit and, some kind of colored shirt and a tie.	aa	That's what I've heard.

sd	I would hate to be in that atmosphere.	sd	But, I mean, they just moved into the new building,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so they were going to try to take their blue jean code with them and trying to get all the upper level to start wearing blue jeans.

b	Oh.	sd	and he'll be over there until July first setting up some kind of computers for them.

bk	I see.	sd	I mean for T I but over in Italy.

sd	T I is everywhere.	aa	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	But, he didn't carry any ties or anything because he just went over there with that attitude, well if I don't take it then they won't make me wear it .

sv	that's a good idea.	sd	Because, he didn't, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But I think that's great about T I,

b	Right.	sv	I think that's great.

sd	and if you happen to go into one of areas that is a smoke area and you don't smoke, you almost strangle.	b	really.

sd	the smoking area, you know, it's closed in,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I used to smoke a long time ago.	sv	I think that's,

sd	That's one of the reason that I stopped .	sd	Well, you mentioned your daughter had graduated from college.

sd^e	yeah, she always had to have a lot of clothes.	sd	See that's how I am

sd	my daughter, she's real good at finding sales though, you know.	sd	me to,

sd	she'll buy a lot of, yeah, she'll buy a lot clothes, at the end of seasons, you know, and, just have them for the next year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I, I'm going to be able to make my own clothes.	ba	That's great.

b	Right.	sd	that's something that I'd be very interested in learning.

sv	because clothes are really expensive. You know,	sv	they're outrageous!

sd	a little simple shell blouse, you know, that you can make for about, say ten dollars you know, at, at the most out of a decent fabric, boy, runs you like twenty something dollars in the store.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Just a little shell to go under a suit, you know.	sv^r	it is really outrageous

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she always told me it was because I was still growing

bf	especially to pay that kind of money for it.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I mean, she dressed him, fabulously.	ba	no .

sd	And then, seems like every time she turned around he was outgrowing stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So now she finds the basement sales just like, you know, everybody else.	sv	That's the best way to shop.

b	Right.	h	I don't know,

aa	Yes,	sd	I try to, always catch the sales.

b	Right.	sd^r	Always .

sv	if you, if you're not buying the most expensive clothes out there the quality is really not that great, you know, for the price that you pay.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	So that has a lot to do with it.

sd	you know, it was just a plain, you know, round, necked, sweater.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think maybe it was nine ninety nine or something.	ba	that's great.

sd	and after I wore it a couple of times I realized why it was, it was so cheap.	ba	Uh, oh.

sd	and they had like just sewed it back together, right in the middle of the back, you know,	ba	no.

sd	wasn't a seam or anything, you know.	b	Uh huh .

sd	And then I was told by somebody that works for J C Penney's that, Ross is just one of those places that sells seconds.	bf	The defect.

sd	they'll send them back every time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But places like Ross Dress For Less and, T J Max.	sd	T J Max does that,

b	Uh huh.	b	yeah

^q	do you think it's possible to have honesty in government or an honest government?	b	Okay.

ny	Yeah.	sv	Well, I suspect that it is possible.

sv	That's a good point.	sv	But, other than that I think maybe it just depends on how you define honesty.

sd	It was just government in general. From times past, you know on	b	Uh huh.

sd	and personally I feel there's probably some of each.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	^q	And, you know, how good a name can I make for myself and so forth.

b	Yeah.	sv	The president of General Motors probably has the same,

sv	I think that's very normal, that we should not ex , I think,	sv	I , I think a little more honesty in the campaigns would be, more to the point.

b	Yeah.	sv	If you knew what you were getting when you voted,

qy^g	That's a problem, isn't it?	ny	Yeah.

sv	They lie to us because we don't want to hear the truth.	aa	Yeah,

sv	If they tell us the truth, we don't elect them Especially with all this co , stuff coming up here lately about people's past,	b	Uh huh .

sd	and I don't know why anybody would want to get under that scrutiny anymore.	sv	It's hard to imagine.

sv	and we're getting away from what we ought to be looking at .	aa	Yeah,

sv	I don't think there would be too many left .	qy^d	So you're taking a government course?

ny	Uh huh.	qw	At what?

sd	Tarrant County Junior College.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	bk	Okay.

sv	and I don't think we can make laws to eliminate anything anyplace totally.	sv	You can make laws against corruption .

sv	but that, doesn't mean,	^2^g	But that doesn't eliminate it, does it?

sd	I mean I don't know how many laws you would have to have.	qy^g@	Well, they've got laws against cannibalism but that didn't stop that guy in, * seems that a new slash unit should start at the conjunction "but" Milwaukee, did it?

sv	I mean I just think that's human nature that you're going to have corruption in government, in business, personal life, I mean, you know.	sv	Actually, I think other countries may have it worse,

b	Right.	sd	Usually involving the Prime Minister or people very close to him.

sd	but when I think about where I'd want to go, you know, this is still the best	aa	Yeah,

o	Uh huh.	fp	Hey Steve.

sd	They refund the deposit which is anywhere from five to fifteen cents a container	qy^d	the deposits only on like drink stuff.

na	Right.	bk	Okay.

sd	on primarily on soft drink, pops and that kind of thing	b	Okay.

sd	we do have one of the scrape metal dealers that will accept tin and aluminum cans as well	bk	okay.

sd	but then again it's the initiative of the individual person because there is no coordinated pick up by the city.	qy	So, did they,

sd	Well, actually there's the opportunity for both.	bk	Okay.

sd	and then they in turn will get some money from the bottlers and from the the people that do the canning of the pop and the beer as well .	ba	That's very cool.

sd	but Central Canada tends to referred more to Ontario and Quebec	b	Yeah.

sd	there's psychological pressure against employing people to do that kind of thing although, scouts and hockey teams and ball teams, those kinds, regularly do bottle drives where they go around in various neighborhoods and collect the bottles at individual homes.	qy	Do they do it with news papers as well?

sd^t	I chose that topic because I really like gardening as far as flowers and shrubs and just keeping a pretty yard.	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh.	sd	this type of thing is working right in to start planting fall bulbs.

sv	but you know you need to pretty soon.	sd	Well, that's the way this was.

b	Oh.	sd	I don't think we've had a frost up here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I don't know if it's late.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I enjoy it.

bf	So now you have the chance to really create and spread out.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I enjoy most of it,

bf	The grass not growing so fast .	ar	Well, it is for me

b	Oh.	sd	and, took a lot of watering and a lot of fertilizing,

sd	We're not having to mow every week religiously	b	Really.

sd	I still have caladiums that are pretty, which is a surprise this late in the year.	bh	really?

sd	But like today, it's eighty five degrees	b	yeah

sd	it's really strange,	b	yeah,

sd	But that'll change real quick .	b	Yeah .

sd	We'll wish we'd planted bulbs and pansies already.	sd	he waits until it gets about seventeen below up here

ba	my gosh.	b	yeah

sd	And there just aren't that many plants and shrubs that can take both of those extremes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Some of the things that used to be hardy are getting to where they don't make it through the two swings.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they have to be hardened to it

sd	Well, the summers have gotten where they're a lot hotter	b	Uh huh.

sd	We've noticed that crepe myrtles don't do as well as they used to and, pittosporum	b	Really,

sd	that used to be the kind of things we could plant all the time	b	Uh huh.

sd	you really take a chance with them freezing,	sd	I love,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I go there on business,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my wife and I,

sd	and when we get to other parts of the country where the trees are so beautiful, we really miss it.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Ohio's a very pretty state.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and now all of a sudden it was being developed,

sd	we haven't seen that one yet.	ad	Well, don't bother .

qy^d	it wasn't that good.	sv	Well, from a woman's point of view it was very, chauvinistic as far as women go.

sv	The most recent one that, my wife and I have seen was the CITY SLICKER.	qw	How was that?

sd	It was just a really funny movie.	sd	That is one I've been dying to see.

sd	I mean, it just ran the gamut of emotion.	b	Uh huh,

sd	but it was just all around entertaining.	qw	How long did that movie run?

sd	it's still on, to the best of my knowledge.	qw	But, I mean, time wise, how long,

sd	I think it's less than two hours.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we rented one recently that seemed to go on forever .	sv	That always seems to happen when you rent them, you know .

sd	I'm guessing probably an hour and forty five minutes, maybe.	b	Uh huh,

sd	But excellent acting by Billy Crystal and Bruno Kirby,	ba	Was it, good.

sd	Jack Palance had an excellent part in there as the old cowboy.	ba	great.

sd	So we really enjoyed that.	sd	well, I'm looking forward to seeing that one.

sd	I think that, I can highly recommend that movie to see.	b	Okay,

b	Yeah.	ba^r	good deal.

sv	in order to get a decent movie to have on a weekend, you've got to rent it on Thursday.	b	Right.

sd	They get they get taken up at the store,	aa	That's exactly right.

sv	and, with luck, you'll have one or two that are good.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Most of them are a coin flip .	ba	gosh.

b	Yeah.	sd	but, it's fun, it's a fun thing to do to get out and be entertained for once.

sd	Quite frequently, we have our grandchildren on the weekends	b	Uh huh.

sd	and,  generally try to stay in the at least P G range.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He doesn't really pay attention.	b	Yeah,

sd	The five year old doesn't have the attention span, either.	b	Uh huh,

sd	But the nine year old will watch anything that's on T V .	b	yeah.

sd	but we can generally find something at the store for them to watch.	b	Uh huh.

sd	PRESUMED INNOCENT was the one we rented, last weekend.	b	Okay,

sd	Harrison Ford.	qw	Harrison Ford and, how does the story line go?

sd	and, a woman prosecutor in there is murdered	bk	okay,

sd	so it's, And it's an extremely long movie.	b	Uh huh,

sd	it's over two hours long.	ba	gosh,

sd	I enjoy them to a degree.	b	Uh huh.

b^m	Save that for another day.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	qy^d	You enjoyed that one, then.

ny	yes.	b	Uh huh,

sd	it was on T V recently, FATAL ATTRACTION.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's one that, once you've seen it once you really can't see it again	b	Right,

sd	so you know all the story and who did what and when it happened,	b	Uh huh.

sv	so once you seen one that's a suspenseful type movie like that, then it's not good for a second watching particularly.	b	Uh huh,

sd	At least I don't think so .	sv	I don't think too many of them are anymore.

sd	we've watched WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S any number of times .	aa	I know .

sd	It's just slapstick comedy .	ba	no .

sd	but we like BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE which is another funny one .	ba	gosh.

sd	we like to laugh .	ba	God.

sd	I don't want to go away depressed from watching a movie.	b	Right.

sv	Life's depressing enough .	aa	That's for sure .

fc	Well, I've certainly enjoyed talking with you.	fc	Well, you, too, Jim.

fc	bye.	ft^t	Thanks for punching in

fc	Have a nice weekend.	fc	I hope you see a good movie soon.

fc	Okay.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

o	Kay.	b	Okay.

sd^t	I guess we're talking about exercise,	aa	Yeah,

sd	I am twenty seven.	b^m	Twenty seven,

qw	What type of exercise do you do?	sd	Well, I do, jazzercise which is an aerobic, program that,

bf	you do.	qy	are you familiar with it?

ny	Yes.	sd	It's, you know, a national company

qrr	or is it the same thing?	nn	No

qy^d	And you do that every day	nn	No,

bk	okay.	sd	The minimum they want you to do is three times a week.

qrr	or, do you belong to a group?	sd	Well, it's really a

qrr	or do you go alone?	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	and most of my friends that are my age don't exercise

b	Uh huh.	sd	and since I am not a tennis player, you know, I don't get that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, there aren't many people, you know, that want to do that.

b	Oh .	sd	Most of the people that are in the classes are young mothers. You know, with children between the ages,

b^m	young mothers or,	sd^r	Young mothers.

b	Uh huh.	qw	Well, what do you do?

sd	and that's what I do every day.	ba	great.

sd	When my wife let's me.	qw	Well, now who do you play with?

sd^e	I just shoot around by myself.	b	Yeah.

sd	I could eat all day and not gain an ounce .	sv	Well see, that's really good

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I don't have a problem with weight either,

bf	You do exercise.	sd(^q)	I mean, people are always saying to me, how do you stay thin

bf	You do it ,	sd	but I also watch what I eat. You know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but you'll come,

b	Yeah	sv	but as you get older you will.

sd	but I don't know .	sv	Well, it might not .

sd	so that's why I've kept active in that way.	b	Yeah.

sd	I do that.	qy	But, do you ski?

sd	but it got too expensive,	bh	did it really?

ny	Yeah.	sd	Cause I know that skiing in Utah is suppose to be great.

sd	a lot of people do that	b	Yeah.

sd	I had rather do other things.	b	Yeah.

bf	they come up here.	sd	and they ski.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	yeah	sd	But there is a place in Utah called a funny name.

sd	There's Snow Bird or Alta.	sd	But it's like, Heavenly.

br^m	Heavenly?	aa	Yeah,

sd	I've never heard of that one.	qy^d	You've never heard of that?

nn	Huh uh.	sd	Well, maybe it isn't in Utah.

sd	I know when I went, you can get sore easily	aa	yeah.

sd	and I am really sore after.	qy	And then, is it your quadriceps that are the worst?

ny	Yeah.	qy^d	In your legs and,

sd	My legs really, really ache.	b	Yeah.

sd	I am using muscles that I have never used before.	sd	and it's strange that you can do, like I did aerobics, you know, all the time

sd^t	now since I got somebody from Arlington, Virginia one day .	bh	Is that right? .

ny	Yeah.	sd	Well, I never thought about that,

b	Oh	sd	and I was thinking yeah, and I was thinking

b^m	Birmingham.	sd	the only Birmingham I could think of was Alabama.

sv	It's funny how many names have been used, all over the country.	aa	Yeah,

sd	so mainly, text books.	qy^g	I was going to say, not fun kind, right?

sd^e	but, I really tend to like biographies a lot, not necessarily always heavy ones	b	Uh huh.

sd	To me, half the time it's more fascinating than some of these made up stories .	aa	Yeah,

sd	it happened.	sd	You know, I read one about Bob Hope that I liked.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah,

sd	That was my thing for a while.	^h	I was trying to think,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

ba	it sounds like fun.	sd	It was a lot of fun because they used these real names, you know.

sd	Margaret Truman Daniels writes a lot those.	aa	Yeah,

bh	Really?	ny	Uh huh.

sv	Sounds like something she would write.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and they always sell well.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I know, some of the British people laugh at us because we're so enthralled with their royalty.	aa	Yeah,

sv	our movie stars.	b^m	Our movie stars,

aa	right.	sd	I haven't had a chance to read a lot lately either.

aa	yes.	sd	starts out when they're small and continues through generations

sd	I always like those.	sd	and I like that.

qy	Have you ever read anything by Susan Howatch?	ny	Yes,

qy	Isn't she fabulous?	na	she is wonderful.

sd	I'll skip everything just to get back to the book .	sd	I stayed up one night, I think until two in the morning finishing one of hers because I could not put it down.

sd	I probably have missed the last few since I've been back in school.	ar	Well, no,

sv	Well, she can turn them out overnight, I swear.	aa	Yeah,

ad	And think how rich she is.	aa	Yeah,

aa	yeah.	sd	because they go from hardback to paperback

sd	And then make movies out of some of them.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they're so such a higher intellectual level, because she quotes a lot, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so she couldn't possibly turn them out like some of these popular writers,	aa	Huh uh.

qy^g	I don't think they've ever made a movie, do you?	nn	No,

sd	I really just thought about it now	b	Yeah.

h	I don't know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They're so big	b	Uh huh.

sv	it would be like another GONE WITH THE WIND, I guess another three hour movie .	b	Yeah.

sd	It's about one of my favorite movies.	qy	have you, gotten into SCARLETT yet?

sd	I wasn't too .	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	and then when it came out, all I heard was just, how bad it was, that I didn't even want to get it.

qy	Do you know anyone that's read it?	nn	Huh uh.

sd	I haven't heard of anybody that's read it, either.	b	No.

sd	I think it was on the best seller list, though for a while.	sd	Well it wouldn't surprise me,

sd	they can find guilt or innocence	b	Right.

sv	but then when you quantify things and might also hold criminal trials for how many years is appropriate, that they might leave it to somebody else who, has expertise in that.	aa	Right,

sd	and one thing that you get if you have some expertise is, you know the range of possible values or terms or, you know, how heinous was the crime.	b	Right.

sd	and most juries over a period of five or ten years you might sit on three.	b	Yeah

qh	And so how do you relate as to whether this particular armed robbery was you know, worth five years or twenty five.	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	And they may have some different idea,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think the judges do have that better knowledge of it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, we can't say it doesn't, because it does happen.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and sometimes that's not real fair either, though

sd	One is, you often see in the headlines the big numbers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and many of those get overturned or get reduced in terms of sentences, or get changed by a judge or an Appeals Court	b	Right.

sv	so we don't know what is really going on, what is, really the range of sentences or awards that are actually, in the end applied.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, which doesn't make any sense to me either.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they're put on like, they were the ones that caused it or whatever,

b	Yeah.	sv	that's not right.

sd	one is, it's restricted in the sense that, juries only decide the charges that are actually, brought, you know	b	Right.

sd	and you can decide guilt or innocence on that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The other thing that juries are restricted on and at least to me this has been one of the frustrating things even in my own experiences, that you usually don't get to hear all the information.	b	Yeah.

sd	but often juries hear only a fraction of the story when they have to decide guilt or innocence.	qh	And to me, how can you make a decision if you don't have all of the evidence in front of, whether it pertains to the case or not,

b	Uh huh.	bf	So the two lawyers are the ones that have all the information.

sd	and the truth that's brought out is, as I say, when I've heard about, you know,	^g	Don't they?

sd	I mean you can say,	bf	They only put part of it.

aa	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	because stories look very different when you hear different parts of the truth.	aa	Right.

sd	and, she's only between six and eight, six to eight weeks old	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I can't understand why anyone would abandon this dog, though.	b	Oh.

sd	and she's almost housebroken.	ba	Wow.

sd	I mean she actually asks to go out.	ba	That's great.

sd	I can't imagine what, would have been wrong with this dog,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you get so attached to them.

sd	but, managed to get him to a veterinarian in time,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and on huge doses of antibiotics, he actually got over it with, seven hundred dollars in vet bills,	ba	Wow.

sd	but he had actually was able to get him over that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then he got hit by a Cadillac.	ba	no.

sd	that was really hard.	ba	gee.

sd	and the dog was being house sit, or dog sit, whatever, by some friends of mine down the street,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so they just felt absolutely awful.	ba	I bet.

sd	and, She was really attached to it,	ba	gosh.

sd	but now, I've got another one,	b	Yeah,

sd	see, it, it was just over a year.	b	yeah,

sd	didn't, didn't have one for a whole year.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I couldn't even talk about it for months

b	Right.	sd	And then God gave me this dog,

^q	there's no way,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and by Christmas time we went down to the I or, I gue , Humane Society and got another one, a stray.	b	Yeah.

sd	but, mom went an,	b	Okay,

b	Yeah.	sv	you can't help

sd	Well hopefully this one here, Cocoa will live a full life .	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	The vet called her, a golden mix ,

b	Yeah.	h	like who knows, you know.

b	Right.	sd	But she's that sort of strawberry blonde reddish color, you know.

b	Oh.	sd	and her nose is that pink, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	she doesn't have a brown nose,

b	Yeah.	sd	so. I named her Rosebud,

sv	they're kind of like, get that permanent smile to them,	aa	Yeah,

sd	I don't think I've ever seen them not look happy.	sd	And she's so easy going and so sociable,

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, she loves everybody.

b	Right.	sd	and she just, you know, thinks it's great.

sd	they had a ball romping around,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, you can't get a Golden Retriever near water without it jumping in.	bf	Getting in,

sd	And, this Golden Retriever jumped in the, really fast moving, river current,	ba	no.

sd	I don't think he'd swum before.	b	Really.

sd	But he jumped in the river.	qy	Did puppy go to?

sd	I was careful to keep her away from the, the fast moving water,	ba	that's good,

sd	And up here the waters probably about forty degrees right now.	ba	Ugh,

sd	He loved it.	b	Yeah,

sd	I pulled her out and, then had to wrap her up in a sweatshirt because she was shivering so bad,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, she got over it,	sd	Well the German Shepherd that I had before,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, she did not want any part of swimming

b	Yeah.	sd	And she'd just lay there on that step and just, you know, cool off .

sd	but, she could go in sometime if I'm watching her,	b	Uh huh.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	qy	Have you seen, CANINE. The movie,

nn^r	no.	ad	you've got to see it. Especially since you have a German,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

sd	it wasn't like he didn't	b	Uh huh.

sd	but if you wanted to get him wet, forget it.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	but that was the only time she wanted to get wet

sv^r	obstinate.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it came on T V the other night

sd	and it did look like it'd be a good movie,	sd	It is great.

sd	really haven't had a whole lot of time to get out to see the movies lately.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, I got to do more fun things.	sd	Well we always wait until we can rent them, you know .

sd	and so I travel a lot.	bh	really.

sd^e	I'm a engineer at the Rolm Laboratory, Griffis Air Force Base, up here,	b	Oh.

sd^t	That's how I got into the switchboard project and all that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	But it's nice having a dog here,	aa	yeah,

sv	what's the word I'm looking for, lots of affection, no co , unconditional affection from the dog.	aa	Right,

b^r	yeah.	aa	Really,

aa^r	no.	aa	Yeah,

o	Okay.	b	Okay.

ad	So tell me about CHINA CRY.	aa	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And her time frame was prior to the nineteen forty nine revolution.

bk	I see.	sd	Although she, herself, had never really accepted Jesus or gone through any of the other, Christian, portions of the faith, repentance, baptisms, et cetera, et cetera. She had always felt a very strong, leaning in this direction.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So , anyway, as she grew up towards maturity, her parents, well,

b	Right.	sd	Everybody was back to a commonality of one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they were starting to, accuse her of, of, crimes and atrocities before the revolution and had her write her own story over and over and over.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Being a child, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And, the Lord just said no,

b	Oh.	sd	And they knew that she wasn't going to come back,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, she was not persecuted or anything else like that.

ba	Interesting story.	aa	Yes,

sd	and it was probably here and gone fairly quickly.	sd	Well, it was within, ninety days.

bh	That recent.	ny	Yeah.

sd	I see what you mean.	sd	But it wasn't,

sd	Well, I guess what I saw most recently and luckily I saw it only a week ago so I'd remember remember it well was, sort of light by comparison.	b	Okay.

sd	and, we ended up going to see GREEN CARD.	br^m	GREEN CARD?

na^r	GREEN CARD.	b	Uh huh.

sd	This was his American film debut	bk	I see,

sd	And basically he played, a Frenchman who married an American girl, in a marriage of convenience so that he could get his green card, which is what an alien needs to work in this country.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, because she could claim she was married, she could get, an apartment or a condominium in a very exclusive building in New York that had an, an, an outside garden, which is very unusual there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that was sort of her dream.	bk	I see,

sd	but there was no proof whatsoever that he really was.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He'd been working in a restaurant when they met.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, they had to learn all about each other basically in a weekend.	bf	Just then.

sd	you knew what was going to happen, of course. That they would fall in love.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and and when they went to the query or inquisition or whatever, they did perfectly	b	Right,

sd	and that clued the investigator that he had memorized a series of answers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just got done reading a magazine or a couple magazine articles about the, new Saturns.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, although I can't afford it right now, I would just love to have one.	bh	really,

sv	and, it seems to just blow the compe , competition away.	qy^d	It terms of handling, acceleration,

sd	and they seem to be really good cars for it.	qo	What about Mustang G T s?

sd	can't afford it.	bf	so you're talking about ones in a lower end, price range.

sd	I don't make any money	b	Right.

sd	But it would be nice, just like scrap it and go for the Saturn.	b	Right,

sd	The nice thing about autocrossing is you can do both.	bf	Autocrossing is,

sd	and it's like really large, parking lots. And pylons and things.	bk	Okay.

sd	They get dominated by the Corvettes that are also in their class.	bh	really?

aa	Yeah.	aa	Yeah,

qw	what are you thinking about buying?	sd	I think I'd like to get, B M W if I go the German route, which I'm kind of leaning towards right now, or maybe I mean, a, a Acura Legend. 

b^m	The Legend.	sd	a Lexus, S C three hundred maybe. Something on that order.

b	Uh huh.	sd@	I haven't really determined if I like the Japanese or if I like them enough to purchase one. * Looks like a complete slash unit to me

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, because your B M W s, your German cars have good reputations, I think.

sd	a lot of the B M W s are produced in, Stutgardt and Munich	b	Yes.

sd	and, I was really impressed by the, factory, tours and such for B M W.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean as you're walking through that little tour in, Munich, it's kind of , they're trying to brainwash you, too .

sd	and, it was amazing how they were completely opposed.	bh	really?

sd	and no two of them are alike .	b	Yeah

sd	I think I like the Porsche's philosophy a little bit better, although it's not really practical.	aa	No,

sv	Unless, it's a toy.	b	Yeah,

qh	What kind of driving just like commuting you'd want to use it for?	aa	Yeah,

ba	Wow, yeah.	sd	So it's pretty minimal.

ba	That's cool.	sd	Lasts a long time.

sd	I was impressed by the Mercedes, too.	b	yeah.

sd	I really like the Mercedes.	sv	But, But if you have a problem with a Mercedes, you take it into a shop, they're going to hit you up for just all kinds of things .

qy	And is it different for the B M W?	sv	I think, well, something on the order of a three series, it's probably different.

ba	I can imagine that.	sd	I'm not sure if I really want,

qrr	or is that a crime free zone there?	nn	No,

sv	I'm afraid you're right.	sd(^q)	one evening I decided to retire early and heard sirens and noises and thought, well, something's happens on Mockingbird and then heard yells and screams

ba	my.	sd	And they had stopped a stolen car and caught one of the men in the hedge

ba	boy.	sd	and then the other one was on the roof in the back.

qy	By your house?	nd	on my house .

ba	my goodness.	sd	So I'm very much aware of, crime in the cities and the concern about it.

sv	that's got to be a frightening way to spend an evening.	sd	It was.

ba	boy.	qy	Is Plano beginning to experience the kinds of things that are more common in the metropolitan, you know, in the urban area?

ny	Unfortunately yes.	ba	That's too bad.

sv	I think, you know, as any city grows up, you get the hoods and the riffraff and everybody else in there,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and now you know, you can tell the change, for sure.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, with all the, Central Expressway, with all the stores and the, restaurants and the convenience stores and all that kind of stuff, it's just prime pickings for people driving by.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that couldn't be too far from you, neither.	sd	well, it's farther west of me.

bk	Okay.	sd	I live over near White Rock Lake.

bk	okay.	sd	it was really frightening to, think that, it's not even safe to drive onto the tollway, or for those people in the tollbooth.

sd	I don't know, how a few bucks can be worth shooting somebody	aa	Yeah,

qy^g	It's kind of stupid, isn't it.	ny	Uh huh.

sv	It's, looks like easy pickings	aa	No.

qy^g	and away you go, right.	ny	Yeah,

aa	I think you're right, although I think that may be an excuse for people, too.	qy^g	it is convenient, isn't it?

na	Right.	^q	I didn't know what I was doing.

sv	and I think when you have haves and have nots, you're always going to find people that are too lazy to figure a way to earn money and find it's easier if you can get a gun to go out and hold something up than it is to figure out a way to legitimately earn the money.	b	Uh huh.

qw	Where do you work?	qy	do you know where Oakland and Hatcher are?

qy	is that Amelia Earhart, School there?	nn	no

qy^g	That's a pretty rough area there, isn't it?	na^m	It is a pretty rough area.

ba	my goodness.	sd	And, you know, you watch the people.

sv	Definitely that area, that's big time.	b	Uh huh.

sv^r	Big time there, sure is.	aa	It surely is.

sd	I don't think I'd go to work without a bulletproof vest on myself .	sd	Well, I'm careful.

sv	that's the worst neighborhood in the whole area.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and he was in Arlington, Virginia .	ba	no.

sv^t	Well, anyway, we've got a easy subject.	aa	Yes,

ad	You go ahead first, if you'd like.	aa	Okay,

sv	you know you get so busy.	sd	I used to.

aa	I know.	sd	and, then I watch,

qy	Are they little?	sd	I have a seven year old and a ten year old.

bf	they're pretty young.	sd	so we usually catch, FULL HOUSE,

sd	my kids are older	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I don't know some of those shows now, like I used to .	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	b	Yeah.

sd	I really like,	sv	now that is a good one.

sd	I make a point of that.	sv	That is.

sd	I think when it's good, it's just a scream.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Half the time you see these people on an interview show, they act just like they do in their parts .	b	Yeah,

sd	and he acted about the same .	ba	God.

b	Yeah,	qy	So, do you watch much T V,

sd	Well, I watch more now because, well I had been going to school for years and have really been too busy	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just make a point of seeing those.	sd	Now, I never see that.

sv	they are just gems of shows. I mean, really, fabulous in every way .	ba	nice.

sd	that's Wednesday at, seven thirty.	b^m	Wednesday at seven thirty,

ad	well, maybe your husband could tape it for you sometime.	aa	Yeah,

sv	It wouldn't take, Wouldn't take much to get hooked on those .	b	Yeah,

sd	so, I watch those.	qy	Are there any new ones this year that came out that you like

sd	but it's still kind of new.	b	Uh huh,

sv	Excellent actors.	sd	I'll have to watch for that.

sd	it came on after something we used to watch	b	Uh huh,

sd	I can't take all these shows on because next semester I'm not going to be able to watch hardly any television.	b	Uh huh .

sd	Well then, it will be mostly reruns, I guess .	b	Yeah,

sd	And by the end of February, the way they do it nowadays.	sd	 Well, we used to watch a lot of DESIGNING WOMEN,

qy	was she the best one? Was she the best one on that old show?	sd	she was just funny.

bh	Really?	sd	She was really funny.

qy^g	they had a big fight on that show, didn't they?	ny	Yeah,

sv	They were all accusing each other of everything in the world .	sv	that was awful

sv	you never will, probably.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, I think the latest soap opera for people is the Kennedy trial for those who have cable.	aa	I know.

sd	I don't have cable.	aa	no,

sv	It's just as wild as any soap opera, from what I hear on the news.	aa	I know it.

sv	And I think he's guilty as the devil.	sd	Well, I don't see how he couldn't be, you know.

sv	There's never anything for you to go to trial as a witness in a case like that. Because you know they tear you to shreds, especially those rich high powered lawyers.	aa	Yeah,

sv	so, It should be interesting.	b	Yeah.

sd	I never have the nerve to buy the thing.	fe	shoot,

sd^e	I don't care anything about that.	sd	Because I don't either.

sd	you know, occasionally, some ice skating will come on, on a Sunday or during the Olympics	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think it's so beautiful.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Well, have you seen a new movie lately?	sd	Well, I am a student

b	Uh huh.	sd	I want to see the FISHER KING and, catch ROBIN HOOD.

qw	what are some of the shows that you have been able to rent though?	^h	let's see.

qy^d	Well, maybe you have seen DANCES WITH WOLVES.	ny	Yes.

b	Okay.	b	Yes.

qo	What did you think of that one?	sd	Enjoyed that quite a bit.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the story was,

b	Yeah.	sd	it was believable.

sd	and that's when the movie was filmed,	b	Uh huh.

sd	my dad lives in the state capital, which is Pierre	b	Uh huh.

sd	In fact, the scene, the big buffalo herd scene, that was a live scene.	ba	Wow.

sd	so we are watching the movie in the movie theater in Pierre	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and, just every time I would start to get into the movie, and it was getting good someone in the crowd would yell, hey, there's John Red Eagle, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	or, you know, they'd start recognizing people.	bf	they knew the extras or the,

sd(^q)	I'd go now which one could that be you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'd start trying to focus in on people instead of picking up the overall,	^2	Scope.

aa	Exactly.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think it was very one sided.	sv	it was,

b	Sure.	sd	and it's just, shoot the Indians,

sd	and, it was a similar, situation with the Iroquois Indians attacking an army fort.	b	Uh huh.

qy	have you seen PRETTY WOMAN?	ny	Yes.

sd	Now I thought that was a good show.	aa	Yeah.

sv	it was kind of like the STAR WARS series, you know, just something a little different, yet believable.	b	Uh huh.

qy	are you going to see this next one that's coming out?	na	definitely.

qy	Have you seen the rest?	ny	Yes.

sd^r	but I think I've missed one.	sd	I actually went to the STAR TREK twenty fifth anniversary marathon that happened about a month ago,

qy	Was that here in Dallas?	sd	they had it everywhere,

sd	Because we had one here in Dallas.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but you can watch the characters develop,

qo	what do you think about it?	sv	Well, the roles have definitely changed in the last generation or so.

aa	yeah.	sv	I think a lot of it has to do with women working.

sv	like in the future, I think all women are going to work.	b	Yeah.

sv	but that will be it,	b	Yeah.

sv	or either they'll have a computer at home and in the hospital where you you know, just continue right on with your work.	b	yeah.

sv	I mean, it really is coming to that because most women now days cannot afford the time that they could take off unless the company pays them.	aa	Right,

sv	They can't even afford to take off, you know, to have children it seems like.	sv	and it seems, if you're going to have kids, that you know, society has decided for you how many you can really have and make it.

b	Yeah.	sv	because if you have, you know, two, well, if you go to work, you're, just working to pay for day care, two or three, you know,

sd	Now, I was real lucky because my husband had a good enough job where you know, when I had them and when they were small, until my youngest got in junior high, I didn't have to work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I didn't.	b	Yeah,

sd	Let me tell you, you go without a lot of things that you wo , you know.	b	yeah,

b	yeah.	sv(^q)	And I think society for such a long time said, well, you know, you're married, now you need to have, have your family

sv	Well it's getting where if you're going to give your kids any kind of education and stuff you can't hardly afford to have over two.	b	Right.

sd	and my youngest one is going to be graduating from college soon,	ba	Oh!

sd	and if I had a third one, I just don't know where it would come from.	b	Yea ,

sv	when you put them through college it just takes just about everything you got.	b	Yeah.

sv	but still, it cost a lot.	aa	yeah,

sv	and the books are outrageous. I mean, absolutely outrageous,	aa	I know,

sd	and it was like ninety six dollars.	ba	Gee .

sd	And this book is a little bitty skinny book.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	I said my goodness, what is it, lined in gold, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, if I'd of probably had three or four children, I don't see how we could have made it, you know, without me working.	sv(^q)	But that's probably because, you know, if you had three, you, you know, would say, if I'd of had four.

sd	but I think I would have had to work.	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, even though he brings in a real good living and everything, in order for me to keep up, I would have had to work.	b	Yeah.

sv	and you work,	b	Yeah.

sv	There isn't going to be any of this, you know, very few people will ever stay home.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, I think I'm just part of the new stuff, that is just,

sd	Well you know, I can't imagine how I did, because now I work all the time,	b	Yeah.

sd^r	and, I can't imagine how I stayed home.	b	Yeah.

sd	but. I mean it is so far down the road,	b	Right.

sd	now when I graduated high school, the thing,	^2	that's what you did. 

sd	I mean that's just the way it was, you know.	b	Yeah .

sd	and the woman stayed home and took care of them,	sd	I, I like the way it is.

b	Yeah.	sd	see, we're from Houston and so it's not so hard for people,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's real small town,

sd	and we got married right out of high school, well a year after I got out of high school ,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I wasn't ready for kids.	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)	And, everybody thought, my gosh, what is the matter with her, you know.	sd(^q)	They're probably going, I bet she can't get pregnant

^q	but that, you know, you better just get ready now.	b	Yeah.

sd	But I was kind of odd because as a general rule the people that married during my time, they had kids within a year.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't care what anybody tells you.	b	Right.

sd	now, she says that, you know, maybe when she's thirty she might want a child then.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, even though I'd like to have grandchildren, I can see her point.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd(^q)	you know, she finally told me it's okay if you don't,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, she stayed home and raised her kids

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I guess I just

sd	I mean, it really does. Accept for what we give to my daughter, to, you know, put her through college and stuff. / * Spelling/usage: "Accept" should be "Except"	b	Uh huh.

sd	or we go on trips, the more or less like entertainment stuff,	b	Right.

sd	but, I'm older.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but now I could not go back and do it.	b	Yeah.

sd	but, to me it feels like I must have done nothing.	b	Right.

sv	And I think it's just the new way that people are thinking.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but where I am, just like all the hospitals, they're getting day care.	b	Uh huh.

sd	like you said if you had four kids, or even if you had two kids, you would be paying all your salary to pay for those two kids to go.	b	Right.

sd	but it's mainly the hospitals.	b	Yeah,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah.

qw	what do you think you would offer as far as, information about selecting a school?	sv	Well, first I think they've got to have a pretty good idea of what they want to do.

b	Uh huh.	sv	once they have that, then they can start looking in all the various publications that give out all the information about schools and write to the schools themselves, and start finding out about the different requirements for the programs and what kind of job assistance and all that other kind of stuff they offer.

sd	but I know there are some fields where it's really not necessary.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, if they want to get a liberal arts degree, I don't know what advice I'd give them.

b	Yeah.	sd	That's what I did .

b	Yeah.	sd	I didn't care about the program or anything else.

qw	What was your degree in?	sd	political science.

sd	and, I have a friend,	qw	Where are you at?

sd	University of Texas, Dallas.	b	Well, yeah,

sd	That's where Texas Instruments is.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I think if you're going into like, law or medicine, a very particular, very specific field, even engineering, you can meet a lot of the requirements at a public, institution.	b	Sure.

sd	And, it's a lot cheaper.	aa	yeah.

sd	This is about twenty years ago.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean as far as selecting a school, I, I feel that, a lot of it depends upon the major.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	originally I had planned, undergrad degree in political science and then a master's in public administration.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And after a year and a half of that I decided I didn't want that either .

b	Okay.	sd	Haven't figured out what I want to be when I grow up.

b	Yeah.	sd	but I, I really did enjoy the law.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I've since discovered that I would be far better off being in the paralegal field. Because that's the nuts and bolts of the law, and that's what I like,

b	Yeah.	sd	and you don't have to put up with all the B S that the lawyers have to.

b	Right.	sd	So that's what I'm pursuing right now

sd	I'm a speech therapy major	b	Uh huh.

sd	and fortunately I have a good medical background,	b	Yeah.

sd	it's actually turning out to be more useful than what I thought.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I also have a good languages background, linguistics. And some psychology.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, it's all working together.	b	Yeah.

sd	The only field I'm not familiar with really is education, which requires about four or five different fields really.	ba	good grief.

sd	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	I said, I couldn't do this everyday.

bf	so you are a disgruntled graduate student .	sd	I am, I am just a disgruntled person all around .

o	Bah, humbug.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And I mean, that was like a can of worms.	sv	you probably got everybody on you, because they were probably all going to law school.

sd	and it was just .	sv	Well, that remark in itself is a slam .

aa	I know.	^q	You know, like, like, my best friends are blacks .

sd	it used to be Jewish, you know.	b^m	Jewish,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I, I, guess Iraqi now is the .

aa	I know,	sd	law was a lot of fun until you get to law school

b	Yeah.	sd	and it doesn't become fun anymore.

qh	what's going to happen when she gets there.	b	Yeah,

sv	You know, all of her dreams will be dispelled .	aa	yeah.

sv	I, I think it's probably more embarrassing and very painful.	aa	It is.

sd	I see I see that happening.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	it was enjoyable for a while,

b	Yeah.	sd	and you begin to wonder, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	If you have any doubts whatsoever, you better not get into it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I wasted a year and a half of awfully hard,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I, I wouldn't trade the experience for anything in the world.

sv	And I think probably the biggest.	qw	What branch were you in?

sd	I was in the Air Force?	sd	I was too.

sd	I just wish that there was something else that, that I could have done, you know, with,	sd	Well, I got tired of the service after a while, I mean

qw	what was your job?	sd	command post.

sd	I was a linguist .	qy	I was just wondering, were you in SAC by any chance? .

br^m	In Tak?	sd	SAC.

sd^e	I wasn't.	bk	okay,

sd	after about eighteen months of talking about the year and a half training, you know, it's something, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that's why, you know, children really need to think about the field they're going into, and I mean, spend a lot of serious reading I mean, not just thinking about.	b	Yeah.

sv^r	They actually should do some reading	aa	That's right,

sv	I, I, I think, I think there's a lot to be said for kids working after school.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	I mean, they find out just how much of a people person they are.	aa	That's true,

sd	and I knew exactly what they were going to do and say.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's just not for me.

qy^t	You want to start?	sd	Well, I guess I would first identify myself as middle aged

b	Yeah.	sd	I, am quite positive on the things that I have seen happen recently relative to women both in society and in the work place,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I guess that's a significant change that I've both participated in and noticed.

sd	and you see women going off to wars as well as men.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I also wonder about the children that are being brought up in the, day care centers.	qw	Wonder about them in what way?

sd	they term it as more, creative. But, that they, are much more contentious.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, I don't, I guess we'll have to see another generation to see what differences a child being brought up, you know, in kind of a, community, rather than a home.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	I guess one knows one's own storly

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I guess my experience is just with what we did

b	Yeah.	sd	They were able to be home together.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I don't know whether there will be an increased amount of surrogacy that we see.

qw	What do you mean?	sd	deliberate childbirth by surrogate mother.

bk	yeah.	sd	Sort of rent a mom,

ba	That's strange.	 +	whether one might conceive, no pun intended, of the possibility that there might be a kind of a deliberate, a professional mother, person. For instance, that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you know, I could envision a society where that would happen and make an interesting, story or whatever.

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't think I have a philosophical problem with that.

aa^r	that's right.	sd	I don't have other than a reading and male perspective on the ver , on the biological urges involved relative to being a mother or not.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't have boys,

b	Yeah.	sv	Maybe we'll see a growth in that where someone makes a career out of, say, taking care of five or six children as opposed to day care.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	It would be a sort of day care,

b	Right.	sd	I know that there are young people, characterized, I guess as being half my age, so by definition that means, they're young. in my work place, who are both of them earning rather decent professional salaries who probably would consider paying a woman, eight or nine or ten thousand dollars a year to take care of their child,

qy^d	To come in and live with them?	sd	I could easily envision that.

qy^d^r	To come in and live with them?	sd	Or to put their child into a home setting, where you know, like they, they would leave at eight in the morning and drop a two year old off in a home where you knew there were going to be four other kids

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, and you were paying for really high quality care.

b	Right.	sd	I have acquaintances of mine where I know that they are paying figures on the order of what I quoted to someone, because that's the experience they want

bf	And then you might have more control over, the morals that they would be taught rather than in like a classroom or a day care center.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I know the day care centers are not cheap either.	sd	I haven't ever really looked at them.

sd	They have to go with a single, I mean a baby sitter more or less.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I think it's like, about sixty dollars a week for two children if I'm not mistaken.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you have to pay that whether you're on vacation, you know, and taking care of the children or if the children are at home, sick.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, that is, you know, just a rate that you have to pay	qw	what do you envision for the next twenty years as far as women in American society?

sd	I think, I really don't have a vision .	sv	That's okay, too.

sv	I, I think that they will be more in the work place because, the door's open.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, it seems in my experience I'm running across single women all the time.	sd	I'm noticing that, too,

b	Yeah.	sv	and that is a little troublesome. because the pressures on them are, rather formidable.

b	Yeah .	sd	and maybe that's a change we'll see.

ft	Thank you very much.	fc	good bye.

fc	It's been interesting.	fc	You take care.

fc	Okay.	fc	Bye.

sd	All right, this is easy for me since I,	sd	And me too, because I eat out a lot.

sd	I do about forty percent of my time on the road.	bf	So you eat all your meals out.

sd	I eat differently than what I could eat at home or around here.	b	Sure.

sd	I don't have to really worry too much about price considerations because I, you know,	qy	I was going to ask you, could you go to, you know, nice places,

sd	I, I like different types of food.	qw	So what are the you know, memorable places you've eaten?

sd	and that's Houston's.	b^m	Houston's,

b	okay.	sd	It's a great place.

sd	There's a restaurant right outside of Reading, Pennsylvania, it's called Alfredo's that does not look like a restaurant that you would really want to recommend to a lot of people.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Of course, not too many people want to rush back to Panama, the country, Panama.	bk	okay,

sd	this is the country this is the country Panama, all right?	aa	I get it.

sd	I'd have to go back through some expense reports.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, you know, I don't know what's down there, the ones out in Addison.	qy	Do you like Mexican?

ng	Not particularly	b	Oh.

qw	which one were you going to recommend?	sd	Well, I mean, there's so many places here, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But in the Addison, well about everything that you could want in Dallas is in the Addison area, anyway.

b	Right.	sd	I mean, now there's a new Italian place Sfuzi

b	Okay,	sd	I've not been there, but it has a great reputation as one of the best restaurants in Dallas,

sd	I'm writing it down .	sd	it's S F U Z I.

b	Okay.	sd	And it's in Addison,

sd	I've been there.	sd	Now I really like Copelands.

sd	one down there is I think it's an old schoolhouse.	bf	yeah, the, I know,

sd	but I don't care for the clowning around.	b	yeah,

sd	I've had,	bf	Magic Time Machine is the place you're thinking of,

sd	I've had excellent food there.	sd	See, when I went, I thought,

aa	True.	sd	but then I just thought the food was over priced for what it was.

sd	I make it a habit of always going out to Pasta Oggi's which is right down there in Ad ,	qy	Do you like Southwestern?

ny	yeah.	sd	Well, now there's a good place in Addison too called Blue Mesa Grill that's on Belt Line that's close to Houston's, as a matter of fact.

bh	Really?	sd	And, it's great,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that's a very good place to eat, The Blue Mesa Grill.

sd	This is going to give me some more places to go.	^2	A whole new, dining experience.

sd^t	well, they don't always.	sd(^q)^t	I thought sometimes they say, you know this is three minutes or whatever.

sd^t	I they've been doing that when, the circuits are busy	bk	okay.

sd^t	I guess that's what they need for their machines to get everything down pat,	b	Okay,

fc	It was a pleasure talking to you.	ft	Well, thanks for calling for helping us out.

fc	You bet,	fc	Bye bye.

qw	What kind of pets do you have?	sd	we have one rotten cat.

b^m	One rotten cat .	aa	Yeah,

sd	I heard a laugh in the background.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Don't you like cats?	sd	Well, I like cats.

b	yeah.	b	Yeah

qw	How does he treat the other people?	sd	Just, stays away or runs usually.

ba	Wow.	sd	But he'll follow my oldest son around.

qy	Did he raise him or something?	sd	he, we bought the cat for him

ba	that's interesting.	sd	So, it's a weird cat .

sd	We have a mutt.	b^m	A mutt.

sd	Well, we named it Hooper because that's where we got it from.	b	Uh huh.

sd	a lot of people, drop off abandoned pets at her house	b	Oh.

sd	so she would neuter them give them all their shots	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we got it because my wife stays here at home alone while I go to work	b	Uh huh.

sd	so that's mostly why we got it. To keep her company while I am away at work.	qy^d	So is that, is that kind of your child right now?

sd^e	Right now it is.	bf	You feel like. .

sd	but right now we haven't had any,	b	uh huh.

sd	but it's pretty good training, I think really, keeps her on her toes .	qy	have you had dogs before?

sd	you couldn't do anything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I mean, that did more responsibility. When it's yours and not your brothers .	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and those dogs always seem to be the best dogs.

sd	Ours is, like a cockapoo.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think it's half cocker spaniel and half poodle.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, it's a really good dog.	b	Yeah.

sv	they seem I mean, listen better or something.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Is your cat a purebred?	nn	No.

qy	Would you ever want a dog in the family?	na	I would.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I should say a pup

b	yeah.	sd	and when we moved into our house that was the first thing we wanted to get you know, was a pet

b	Uh huh.	sd	the kids couldn't handle him

b	yeah.	sd	so we gave him to,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they have,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we took him up there

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so we asked him about it one day

ba	Wow.	sd	just goes everywhere with him.

sd	probably the favorite instrument would be, the violin.	sd	well my favorite, well,

sd	and, sometimes I enjoy listening to, fiddle music.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's kind of fun to listen to the fiddle pans .	b	Yeah.

bf	Chris Xeros.	aa	Yeah.

ba	you lucky thing.	sd	So, we used to go and listen to them all the time

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I grew up with a lot of his music, and what not.

qy^d	You grew up with his children, too, then?	ny	Yeah.

ba	gosh.	na	Sure did.

qy^g	small world,	ny	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	We all go back to parents' houses on the weekends, and what not

sd	I played violin in the orchestra for several years you know,	bh	really?

ny	yeah .	qy^g	It is a small world isn't it?

sd	So, I know Chris .	b	Yeah,

aa	Most of the time .	aa	Yeah,

sd	So, he's about ready to retire, another year	aa	Yeah,

sd	it's daughter, it's his daughter that,	aa	uh huh.

b	Oh.	sd	It was really nice so ,

qr	Was it a boy or a girl?	sd	He's a little boy .

qw	What did they name him?	sd	I can't,

b	Oh.	sd	I keep forgetting, what she named him.

b	Oh.	sd	His middle name is Chris, or Christopher for for her daddy,

aa	Of course.	sd^r	but , I think it's Elijah .

b	Oh.	sd	It starts with an E.

b^r	yeah.	h	I can't remember .

qy^d	so you've heard the Richardson Symphony?	ny	Yes.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

qy	Do you have a favorite instrument?	sd	actually one of my favorite instruments is a harpsichord.

b	Yes.	sd	I really like those,

bh	did you?	ny	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	Which was real nice.

b	Oh.	sd	I liked the sound of the harpsichord.

qy^d	And it played by itself?	nn	No,

qy^d	Well, I mean, but you didn't have oboe or something with it?	nn	No,

b	Oh.	sd^r	It was real nice.

sv	Well, yeah that's, I bet that was nice.	b	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	not, you know, the bouncy, you know sing along kind but some of the older ones that

b	Right.	sd	some, I don't even, I recognize the melodies, and whatnot,

b	Right.	sd^r	So, it was real nice.

sd	So, I always think it's a nice break from the traditional organ or piano.	b	Uh huh.

sd	or it makes an elegant wedding to have something else.	aa	It does.

b	Oh.	sd	I don't know how else to explain.

b	Yeah.	sd	And my dad and

qy	does it offer, like band, or some of the instruments?	ny	Yeah,

bk	Okay.	sd	So he hasn't really gotten into, that yet.

b	Right.	sd	but, he's not old enough yet to get into the band yet.

b	Right.	sd	I think that starts in sixth grade.

fe	Gosh.	h	but I don't know.

sv	you got a little ways to go, too .	aa	Yeah,

sd	I've learned a lot about playing the piano.	bh	Really?

sd	I sort of watch their technique, too, and see if it corresponds up to what she's learning.	b	Yeah.

sd^r	So, it's been fun.	sd	I don't know if any of mine will be interested in it

qy	All right?	ny	Yes.

qw	How many kids do you have? .	sd^t	I think we're going to talk about parents spending time with their children.

b	Right.	sd^t	So this is the big issue with us. Although I don't recall marking it on my little things to talk about

b	Uh huh.	h	Anyway.

nn	No.	qy^d	But you're married?

sd	We've been trying for about two years but no luck yet.	b	Oh.

aa	Uh huh.	sd	I'll be right back.

t3	She has just three kids, eleven, nine, and eight.	fp	Hello?

b	Uh huh.	fa	I'm so sorry.

aa	All right.	sd	That was my daughter's Brownie leader telling me that there is a meeting tomorrow Brownie meeting.

qy	do you have a lot of activities with your kids?	sd^t	Well, I don't want this to be a unilateral conversation

b	Uh huh.	sd	The kids, they are real people

qy^g	So they're pretty good kids, huh?	sd	I'm sure that's coming though.

sd	But, my Dad,	br^m	You had eight boys and one girl?

sd	So that's how we spent most of the time with him.	qy	Are you Mormons?

ny	Yeah.	sd	That's what the Utah and the large family.

qy^g	That was a dead giveaway, huh?	sd	Well, we're Catholics.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the only girl.

b	Oh.	sd	And everyone always asked if the girl got spoiled.

sd	I was going to say, my sister wasn't spoiled very much.	aa	No.

b	Yeah,	sv	Well, I do think with working parents I mean, there are some real issues here. that I think,

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know.

b	Oh.	sd	My husband is a physician,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I feel when my children were very young, I had jobs that helped me be flexible with my schedule and spend time with them and all that sort of thing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I really believe that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I know it sounds like a rationalization

sd	And we're planning on having my wife stay home.	sv	There's no question,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I hate to put it quite that way.

b	Yeah.	sd	I was twenty nine when I had my first child

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's wonderful to be a mother

b	Right.	sd	I sort of worked half time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I think we choose very carefully the, alternative situations that we had them in.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Some baby sitting groups,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think that helps.

sv	Sounds like you're, have a handle on it.	qy	Well, so . So, your wife, does she work right now?

sd^e	not right now.	bf	She's out,

sd	We used to live up in Seattle for a couple of years.	qy^d	You're still trying to dry out?

o	Okay.	sv	Well, if you're from Iowa, you must be very artsy crafty.

sd	and before then I was from Utah.	sd	I didn't know anyone ever moved from California to Iowa?

sd	and then, now we're in Iowa .	sd	I'm teasing, only because I'm from Indiana.

bh	really.	sd	I like the Midwest.

b	Oh.	sd	But I married a Texan,

sd	and I do fabric painting.	bf	you do a lot then.

qo	How about you?	sd	actually I'm pretty untalented .

b	right.	sd	I used to do a lot of knitting and crocheting,

b	really.	sd	and in December everyone was doing stockings, you know these gorgeous, detailed minute, tiny stitch stockings.

sv	well those take a lot of time.	aa	Yes.

sd	and I just don't have the patience to just, you know, do something.	qy	Is this your first baby?

ny	Uh huh.	qy	Have you crocheted or knitted any baby clothes or baby blankets?

sd	and I've done a quilt for our bed,	qy	Did you embroidery the pattern and then quilt it yourself,

sd	I just went around the design in the quilt.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I didn't piece it or anything like that	qy	But you actually hand quilted it yourself?

ny	Uh huh,	qy	did you need a loom,

qy	are you familiar with that?	ny	Uh huh.

b	okay .	sd	But, again, my mother back in Indiana,

ba	my God.	aa	yes,

sd	But, I used to do more before I had, before we got our baby,	bf	you think, children,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think when babies,

aa	exactly.	sv	Once they get old enough to talk then they no longer will wear them .

qy	does that make sense to you?	ny	yes,

b	really.	sd	So I went and bought just some cloth glue and glued it all back

b	Oh.	sd	and it was salvageable ,

sv^t	I guess we're recorded.	b	Okay.

qy	do you have any hobbies that you like to do?	ny	yes.

sd	In fact, he's out there right now before it gets dark trying to get in his miles for the time.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)^t	do you do any handicraft type things, I think was the question.	b^m	Handicraft type things.

sd	whittling or ,	aa	Yeah,

sd	and I've gotten to where I have started selling them at craft shows and things.	ba	that's pretty good.

sd	but most , of them have worked out pretty good .	b	Yeah,

ba	Oh!	sd	It's kind of neat.

sd	I didn't know there were such things.	aa	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we kind of help out the people who are really not .

qy^d	you're not in , into hacking or whatever .	nd	I think I'm, I think I'm a hacker,

b	Uh huh.	nn	no,

qy^d	you said you did cycling?	ny	Yeah.

qw	What was the other thing?	sd	Backpacking.

b^m	Backpacking.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and my daughter was in Girl Scouts until just about a year ago	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you been backpacking anyplace exciting?	sd	well, just last weekend went to Davy Crockett forest which is kind of out in east Texas.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we go to, places out in,

bf	that one.	aa	yeah.

b	Okay .	b	Yeah,

qy^d	by Fort Sill there?	nn	no,

qy	Have you gone, like to Fillmont with the Boy Scouts?	nn	No,

sd	I've always thought that would be a real fun thing to do.	aa	yeah,

qy^d	like know, for a vacation you'd go backpacking?	nn	no,

qy^g	and you volunteer for the Boy Scouts,	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh .	sv	It's better than, you know, owning on them and making payments on them, and, you know, things like that.

qy	do you ever, you know, just vacation someplace where you strictly backpack?	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, there's, some stuff that I want to do with like Sierra Club and go down to Grand Canyon or something like that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Which seems kind of reasonable because that means you don't have to take twenty thirteen year olds with you, which seems a, just a tad more relaxing .

sd	well, my other things that I like to do in my spare time, I like swimming.	b	Uh huh.

fp	Hello,	fp	Hi.

fp	this is Lois.	fp	Hi,

sd^t	And, I called you know, from the, the T I Data Base Calling Instructions.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	this is about changes in the women in the,	b	Uh huh.

qy^g	there's really a lot, isn't there.	ny	Yeah .

sv	I think there really is.	sv	It's kind of an easy thing to talk about.

qy^g	I guess the work force would be the main, wouldn't it.	ny	Yeah,

aa	All right.	b	Okay.

qy^t	Are you ready now?	ny	Yes.

sv	like I said I guess it would be the work force, you know, as far as changes in the generations.	aa	Yes,

sv	I think now, you go to work when they're six weeks old, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I feel like the next generation, you'll probably just work right along with your husband, you know.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And it's just going to get better.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It really is.	sd	Because women are in every field now,

sd	I can't either, not a one.	sd	And I know at least in the medical field, it seems like they've come out with a lot further advances as far as female medications and things since women have gotten into the doctor field.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't think that men really took the time to work on that sort of thing.

sv	even in Washington, you know, there seems to be a lot more women involved.	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	sv	I think that would be the best goal.

bf	and that would be it.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	I kind of think, maybe in time, that, you know, you'll go by social security numbers, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	and that way they can't say well they picked a male over a female, female over a male, you know,	aa	Exactly,

b^r	yeah.	sv	your age or anything.

sv	just go by your social security number and then look at you qualifications you know, that you have.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	And then if you get it, you know then,	aa	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Like if you and another lady were to share the same full time job, or,

sd	As a matter of fact, that's what I'm doing.	bh	Is it.

sd^e	it sure is.	sv	That would be great.

aa	It sure is.	sd	Or, a lot of women I know now and one of my supervisors, when she went on L O A to have her baby, we hooked up, a terminal at her house

b	Oh.	sd	I would just take her the actual paperwork once, every week or two,

sv	that is.	sv	And that's a real attractive option, if you have the technology for it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	All it was, you know,

na	I do,	bh	Do you?

sd	I think it's great.	qr	Do you work like half days, or half weeks or,

sd	and she'll work two,	ba	that's great,

sd	and we just share off like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	we get the full benefits.	ba	that's wonderful.

sd	But we've just really got a wonderful system that we're working under.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and that way we're not really missing any thing out, you know, of children,	^2	Either way,

sd	but we don't want to miss any of those P T A s and, you know, all of that.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	I think it's great,	b	Yeah,

sd	and I look for more of that in the next generation.	sd	I do too, especially as women get up in management and can be in on those decision making,

sd	I do too.	sv	Plus, I bet it cuts down on your absenteeism because you've got two days off that you can do everything,

sd	or just forget it.	b	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's been real helpful too,

sv	Well I think we've really come a long way in that because,	aa	Uh huh,

sd	but it wasn't that easy for her to just take off.	aa	no,

aa	yeah.	sd	I think there is still some discrimination there where you know, men and women work in the same job,

aa	I do too.	sv	but I think that's improving.

b^r	yes.	sv	and you just want to make it right,

aa	They really are.	aa	Yeah,

fc	I know the feeling.	fc	Call again.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Okay,

qw	Well, what is your favorite kind of music?	sd	Well, I have to say my favorite type of music would probably be, classical music.

aa	same here.	bh	really.

ny	Yeah.	qw	What type of music do you like in the classical area,

sd	well, I guess I like a wide range. everything from Baroque through at least some modern music.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We've been sort of opera fans for a few years now.	qr	do you go to the operas that they sing English or go to the ones that they sing other languages?

sd	the places we've gone they sing in the original languages.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Like the Dallas opera here normally does, I guess.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, one thing that's helped us a lot is that, you know, you can buy a lot of these operas now on video tape	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then you can enjoy it in the, theater.	b	Oh.

sd	But, you know, the, Dallas opera now has, super titles on all their performances I think.	qw	What is that?

sd	Well, they give an English translation on a screen up above the stage.	sd	I didn't know that.

b	Yeah.	sd	That can help people like me.

sd	In fact, they even do that for operas sung in English, because it is hard to understand the words sometimes.	ba	Well, I can understand that.

sv	he's, definitely one of the top of that era.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Course I like, also string instruments,

b	Oh .	sd	So, I get to go to at least four or five concerts a year .

qw	how old are they?	sd	One is thirteen and one is eleven.

qr	So they're doing this in school, or what?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yes .

sv	Well, you've got half a string quartet there.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I try to enjoy all of it.

qy	Well, since you seem to like, Italian music, have you ever, gotten into Gabrielli or anybody there in that era, the, period right before, actually before Vivaldi, I guess?	na	a little bit,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I do belong to a Musical Heritage Society.

b	uh huh.	qy	Do you belong to that?

qy	can't you get records through that or something, recordings?	na	You can get recordings.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, they do a lot of original recordings themselves.

b	yeah,	sd	But they also, go to the different composers, or the different, I guess,

aa	right .	b	Yeah.

bf	So, they're actually commissioned performances.	aa	Sure.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Or they will kno , find out when they're performing,

sd	but if I get involved in one of those things, I end up spending all my money on on music.	b	Yeah.

sd	I almost, bankrupted myself out of college as a freshman when I got into the Columbia Record Club many years ago.	bh	really.

sd	and I got a lot of bills .	bk	I see.

sd	So we have to watch that.	ba	Well, that's good.

qy	do you play any instrument yourself?	ny	Yes,

qy	Okay, Chuck, do you have any pets there at your home?	ny	Yeah, I do.

qw	And what kind do you have?	sd	I've got a male Siamese about a year old here.

b	Uh huh .	qo	How about you?

sd	he's probably, a good two years old, big, old, fat and sassy tabby.	b	Uh huh.

qw	how's the disposition of your Siamese cat?	sv	Well, it's, you know they're just, aggressive by nature

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, he's been neutered and declawed,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, that kind of calms him down for the most part.

sd	He's, been so mean to her .	qw^d	and you say you've had him how long?

sd	We've had him for about two years	b^m	Two years.

sd^r	he bites her.	qy	Does he bite her enough to draw blood?

sd^e	he has a couple of times,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he's the only one that allows him to touch him or pet him or love him	b	Yeah.

sd	He won't even let my son shower.	b	Yeah.

sd	So he's quite a animal .	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	You wouldn't want him to carry her off or something.

sd	well, we did, actually take him to the pound a couple of times, you know because we just couldn't have him being so aggressive towards the girl,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we do keep our daughter away from him.	b	Yeah,

sd	Were it not for my son, the cat would not be in this house .	qy	Is that the only pet that you have?

sd	So, we gave him up and tried.	qy	Well, do you live, you in a house, or a place where you,

sd	but we're in a subdivision where we really can't allow the dog,	bk	I see.

sd	and it was unfortunate.	b	Sure.

qy	So have you tried any other pets?	nn	No,

b	Oh.	sd	you know, I saw something on C N N or on cable here a while ago that showed some people that had rabbits in apartments and in houses,

ba	my word.	sd	and they apparently,

qy	And do they just paper train it or something?	na	I guess.

sv	Otherwise they're pretty smelly .	aa	Yep,

sd^e	we don't have cable.	bk	I see.

bh	Is that right?	sv	and some of the weirdest animals you ever want to see in there.

sd^e	Elton.	ba	Goodness.

sd	It's north of Salt Lake City, Utah	b	Uh huh.

sd	we're only about ten minutes from Ogden.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, we're kind of country but not too.	qr	Well do you all work for T I, or for,

qy	Do you?	ny	Yeah,

sd^t	well, see, I'm getting so many calls to Texas.	sd^t	This is the very first one I've talked to.

sd^t	I've been doing it for about two weeks	b	Uh huh.

qw	So how do you get most of your current event information?	sd	Well, , see I'm going to school right now,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I don't watch T V as much really either, because, my free time is kind of,

b	Right.	sd	While I'm at work sometimes, on the computer network I read the news sometimes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's kind of helpful.

sv	you keep up on what's going on.	aa	That's true,

b	Yeah.	sd	And the people I work with are pretty, you know, up to date on that kind of stuff,

sd	and so I get most of my information probably through just the news at six o'clock and then, talking with people and just hearing what's going on. .	b	Uh huh.

sd	Just the regular channel just channel eight.	b	really.

sd	that's the, eyewitness news.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think the,

sv	and basically you know, if a candidate can get them to follow, then the news will, you know, kind of publicize his name.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think you get a very lopsided picture of what's going on.	b	Uh huh,

sv	I mean, it just covers your basic, you know, violent crimes you know, and, and your catastrophes with weather and stuff,	b	Yeah.

sv	but other than that, you really don't know what's going on.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, I guess I do read other magazines, too, to get my information.	qw	What kind of, see,

b	Right.	sd	but other than that I don't really read,

sd	I used to read every month a READER'S DIGEST	b	Uh huh.

sd	or if I, you know, am interested in something, of course, when we were in war, I read up on that just a little in the newspaper to find out what was going on.	b	yeah.

sd	but I just can't seem to find the time.	b	Yeah.

sd	If they put it out in a video, or on , not a video but a cassette tape or something, where you could just listen to it I would do that while I was doing other things.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, we just don't want to hear every night all the killings that went on here in Dallas	b	Yeah.

sd	that we want to hear what's going on with the economy, what's being done to help it, what's going on in other countries, what's, you know, just more information.	sv	if they reported every violent crime in Atlanta it would probably take the whole news hour .

qy^d	Well, I guess we'll get pretty good news coverage in a couple of years when you host the, summer olympics .	ny	yeah,

sd	I know, we're trying to get tickets to it right now.	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	sv	That's going to be crazy that time of year here.

b	Yeah.	sd	I can't believe, I mean,

b^r	right.	sd	and they did so well last year.

sd	and I think that's fine, I would like to see more time spent on other things.	b	Yeah.

sv	short term, I don't think anything's going to be done about it or probably should be done about it.	b	Right.

sv	the short term, the recession is getting top attention.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And that effectively adds to whether it's officially on the books or not.	aa	Right.

sv	And that's got to be paid.	aa	Exactly,

sv	It can only hurt the deficit picture.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and the severity of the deficit picture already limits the options available or limits the degree of tax cutting you can do without, bringing on serious problems for the longer term.	aa	Yeah,

sv	So that, that's the current predicament.	aa	Yeah,

sv	It's probably a judgment of how bad the recession is.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Well, well, first of all you look to the Fed to fight the recession as indeed it has, with interest rates.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, at the moment we're doing very well on inflation.	aa	Yeah,

sv	That's the sort of upside to the deficit.	sv	It's a sort of a piece of luck.

sv	That's the upside to the recession.	b	Yeah,

sd	at various places to look for cutting the budget, first of all I consider more defense cuts than are already planned depending on the world situation.	b	Sure.

sv	the Reagan administration took all such entitlements to the poor but left them for the middle class,	b	Uh huh.

sv	Also somewhat is to collect owed to the government from various loan programs that people have borrowed.	aa	Right.

sd	A lot of education aid has gone to so called trade schools which are sort of not colleges	b	Uh huh.

sd	but schools that teach you trades, you know, beautician well, often exists only because of the federal programs that they can take people and tell them they can get loans for their full tuition, and the school gets paid off immediately,	bk	I see what you're saying.

b	Yes.	sd	Well, I would have to agree with you if there are circumstances like that, around,

sd^t	I guess we're going to discuss food and cooking.	aa	Alright .

qy	Do you enjoy cooking?	na	Sometimes, not all the time .

sd	I, I enjoy cooking when I have time.	b	Right.

sd	I don't enjoy preparing three meals a day everyday .	aa	Yeah,

sv	It gets kind of boring.	b	Yeah.

qw	How big is the family you cook for?	sd	five.

sd	and two of them are teenage boys,	sd	well I'll be hitting that fairly soon because all of mine are boys, too.

bh	Are they? .	sd	And they get pretty particular sometimes in what they want to have.

sd	It's just absolutely incredible .	aa	yeah,

bh	Does he? .	sd	And I told him he's going to have to get a part time job by the time he reaches teenage years so he can eat.

qy	do you have any favorite things that you serve when you are doing a special meal? Favorite recipes that you've come across or,	sd	My husband and I, our favorite meal is,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he does the steak

qy	Out on the grill?	ny	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he marinates it in his special stuff that he does.

ba	Ooh .	sd	And it's real good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I do sauteed mushrooms,

ba	yeah.	sd	and asparagus.

sd	My husband really likes seafood.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but I like it.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's really like a soup that you serve over rice.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it has oysters and shrimp and crab in it.	qy^g	It's not the one with all the shells and stuff in it, is it?

sd	That's kind of Louisiana I think if you do that.	sd	I don't know what that,

sd	and I freeze two containers of it.	b	Oh.

sd	But neither of my kids will eat it. You know,	b	Yeah.

sd	so then they eat a pizza or .	b	Yeah,

sd	a friend gave me a recipe that I really like for chicken enchiladas.	ba	yeah.

qy	Have you made them?	ny	Yeah.

bh	Does he,	sd	I don't eat enchiladas.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't like enchila , I don't like the tex ,

b	Yeah.	sd	But everyone else in my family does.

qy	Is that what he uses?	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, my kids love it.

sd	and you can make a lot at one time when I needed to make something to give somebody. You know, like, you know, to take over to somebody's house or something else.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's nice when it makes, a lot because you can feed your own family	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	or I give it to my Mom and Dad if I know we're not going to eat,

qw	What, what does it have in it?	sd	you can use chicken or turkey,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it's rice and, ,

b	Yeah.	sd	I do it to taste.

sv	Sometimes those are the best ones,	aa	Well yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's it, and some hard boiled eggs.

ba	that sounds good.	sd^r	And that's it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you sprinkle, those, toasted onion rings. On top of it for the crunchy.

b	Uh huh.	sd^r	And that's it, you know .

ba	That sounds good.	sd	and it's filling because of the rice.

qy	You cook the rice before you put it in?	ny	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	I bet the mayonnaise in there kind of gives it a tang that would be good.	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	I guess I would now use the new mayonnaise free.	ny	Yeah,

sv	That's really wonderful that they're coming out with so many new things like that because like I told my husband this summer, I love to eat, you know, chicken salad and tuna salad and stuff like that	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, you know, basically it certainly a low calorie, you know, good thing except then you put your mayonnaise in there and spoil the whole thing.	aa	I know.

sd	Well now, I'm just putting more and more in .	sd	I don't like tuna salad unless it's got lots of mayonnaise in it.

sd	and now it's like twelve.	b	Yeah.

fe	Oh!	o	I know.

b	Anyway . Yeah.	b	Yeah,

b	Yes .	sd	And they don't need any added help.

b	Right.	sd	So, when we're here at home, you know, with sweets and stuff, they don't, we don't really do that much.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and drink wise they have Kool Aid, milk or water. Normally.

b	Yeah.	sd	Now when they go to their grandmother's house, which is every weekend. It's a, it's a different a different story all around.

bf	That's when they, As our family would say, pig out .	aa	Uh huh.

ba	That's good.	sd	That's exactly what it is.

sd	one of my boys that's, twelve, has high cholesterol.	bh	really?

qy	Have you ever found out about your kids.	nn	No,

sd	I think it's mostly hereditary because we really have never eaten high things in cholesterol.	b	Yeah.

sd	so he needs to be careful again.	b	Yeah.

sd	So we've really been talking about the foods, you know, for him to be sure to eat	bf	The lower cholesterol foods and stuff .

qw	Anyway, what are your first comments on that subject?	b^m	my first comments on the budget.

qy^d	Defense?	nn	Surprisingly, no.

qy^r	Have private enterprise do it?	br	You mean the prisons?

sd	I mean, they're talking about, having it, as a, you know, business. you know, to, so, you know, the government doesn't have to deal with it.	sd	I hadn't heard that.

sd	so, or, obviously.	b	Right.

sd	but, But see they don't have enough, you know, there's not enough room in these prisons and that, to continue funding it.	sd	But to me it,

sd	They think they need to, maybe have, you know, private enterprise come in.	sv	Well, see the other way I'm thinking about is they should be self supporting, like, the prisoners make license plates or farm or small industry inside the prisons. Anything to where they can be self supporting within themselves.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's the same thing like the whole I shouldn't say criminal, but the whole police department of the United States.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So it's you know, self defense on that point.

b	Yeah.	sd	But again I'd like to see something on the other end back into education. But not in the education we have today.

sd	and all those European countries, they pay all the way through college and stuff like that.	ar	Well, not so much pay.

sd	But here, you know, it's just up to high school.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	qh	why not an apprentice out to a company and learn from down on the bottom as a wood worker or, you know, just a technician?

b	Uh huh.	sv	our education budget will go down if this is,

b	Yeah.	sv	But that would come down.

sv	But they can't just bring somebody in without even having gone to, you know, school in that area before they can work, you know, for a lawyer as a paralegal.	sd	Excuse me. I see it being done .

qy^c	Is that better?	ny	Yes.

bk	Okay.	ba	Wow!

sd^c	so I changed that.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, you know, I think, maybe they need to, help promote that more. Give incentives like, if they do bring somebody on, they will pay some of their costs or give tax breaks or whatever it is, you know, for them to train people, you know, stuff like that. Programs like that, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't know, you know, what kind of options they've got.	sv	Well, that's something about what Germany's supposed to be doing. Something similar to that right now.

b	Uh huh.	sv	they go on the unemployment list before we have turn around. Because they don't have any education.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't mean college.

sd	And then out of that percentage, only so many can get their degree.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, you know, most people I knew have gone and got their degree.	aa	yeah.

sd	And they go to college, etcetera.	sv(^q)@	Well, it seems to me that kids that get out of high school that parents have gone to college and college here and college there that are really not interested in going to college and forced into it, usually are your drop outs. Where if they're said, hey, it's just as advisable to go into something you enjoy and you like. / * Seems that new slash unit should begin with "Where . . ." even though what follows is a subordinate clause.

b	Yeah.	o	Question.

sv	And, the you know, money being spent and the goods flow in and you know, we don't, sell products abroad as much as we bring in.	qy	Were you watching,

o	I don't believe that we're ,	qo	So what do you think about, recycling programs in Atlanta, Julie?

qy	I don't think they, do they do newspapers?	no	I don't know,

b	Yeah.	sd	That's the only way I could really,

sd	They pick up newspapers and, you know, milk jugs and aluminum and tin cans, you know, like soup comes in and stuff.	sd	Uh huh.

sd^r	They pick up everything.	sd	During the summers, like around where I live the, homeless people see ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they're go around and collect cans and aluminum and stuff,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so we used to just save them up

b	Uh huh.	sd	during the winter time I think they move south or something

b	Yeah .	sd	so, I don't do that anymore.

aa^r	I know it.	sd	They just overflow.

sd	It piles up.	qh	So what's a guy to do? You know. * Shouldn't this end in a slash?

h	I just don't know.	h	I asked myself.

sd	you can't really unload all your stuff.	bh	Really?

b	Uh huh.	sv^r	Inconvenient, even .

aa^r	I know it.	qy^g	so, you do recycle, don't you?

ny	yeah.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I don't ever take anything.

sv	you ought to, because the, the farmer's market recycles absolutely everything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And since we go there all the time, I mean	^h	But wait

sd	probably at all.	sd	I've never seen you before .

sd	by the way, may name's Julie.	b	Yeah,

fp	Hi.	fp	Hi.

sd	I'm from Atlanta.	sd	Me, too.

ba	Neat.	ba	Crazy.

sd	I just think that everybody ought to do it.	qy	Do they do

sd	The only thing I know that you can recycle is milk jugs.	bh	Really?

b	Yeah.	qw	What about like those grocery bags?

sd	but I used to just save up the ones that I got one time and then go and hand them to them the next time and use them over and over.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'm not sure if Kroger does or not	sd	They'll ask you whether you want bags or paper or plastic.

sd	Can bring them in.	sv	Those petroleum products are going to kill us.

aa^r	I know it.	sv	The hostile planet, I think, Julie.

sv	It really is a small, hostile planet .	sv	I mean, those petroleum products I think are the big, you know the great Satan of the recycling.

qy	Did you know that, like, something like fifty percent of the world's landfills is like paper? Filled with paper.	sv	Paper just seems so innocuous.

sd	Well, it is, though.	sd	It comes from trees.

sd	It is, because they,	qy^d	They treat it with chemicals or something?

sd	like yellow paper, you know takes something like twenty times as long to decompose.	b	Yep.

sd	it will still be there in a couple of weeks.	bh	Really?

sd	You'll be able to read off of it.	cc	I'm going to switch from those yellow legal pads, then.

b	Yeah,	sd	I'm glad you told me that, because I use those at work, where I work

sd	they treat it, too.	qo	Well, what about, papyrus, you know, made out of you know, bamboo stuff, from the from the banks of the Nile.

ad	Maybe we ought to just start carving in stone again.	bh	You think so?

no	Maybe.	qy	Tablets?

ny	Yeah.	sv	I think we should just abandon you know, the written word altogether, you know.

sv	well, I mean, I think we've kind of, you know,	qo	What do you think?

sv	I mean, everybody everybody has a computer.	sv	Kind of radical, I know

sv	We would no longer need paper at all.	aa	That's true.

fp	Hello.	fp	Hello.

fp	I live in Texas.	fp	Hi,

qy	do you also?	nn	No.

bk	Okay.	nn	No,

qy^t	you ready to begin?	na	We might as well.

b	Okay.	qy^g^t	I understand we are doing care of the elderly, right?

ny	Yes.	qo	And how do you feel about putting someone in the nursing home?

sd	I believe, if I, am in a position, like when my mother gets to a point where she needs special care that I will be able to just bring her into my home and my father also, or have someone go into their home, you know and look them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That way.	aa	Yes,

sv	it's more how they feel about it.	aa	Yes.

sd	And it is like they feel, the way my mother would put it like somebody had thrown them away . You know?	aa	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but attitude of staff makes such a tremendous difference.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I know that the cheerful pleasant people who treat her kindly make all the difference in the world in how she feels about, her situation.

sd	I use to work in one of the offices in a nursing home	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I got to see a lot of the things that they did	b	Uh huh.

sd	they had a lot of crafts 	b	Yes.

sd	some of the people that are in there are you know, very nice and friendly to everybody	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they just you know want to go in and do what they have to do and get out go home.	b	Yeah.

sv	the attitude of the staff as you said is really very very important.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sd	And they may be ambulatory,

b	Yeah.	sd	and that would be very difficult I think for an adult who wasn't in that situation to to have to deal with on a daily basis.

sd	and and they would enjoy enjoy themselves with activities	b	Yes.

sd	and they they just didn't like participate together with the others because they had some, I guess, slight mental disabilities and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

qw	what do you call Alzheimer disease and stuff like that	b	Yes,

sd	and don't, they weren't really together with the rest of them, when they got together for such activities.	b	Yes

qo	How do you feel about the Viet Nam war?	sd	well, you know, I guess it's pretty deep feelings,

sd	I saw that as well.	sd	Got some insight there, to kind of help me put together the feelings.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, what for him to finish me off .

qy	Well, were you ever in Viet Nam	nn	No,

sd	I was born in sixty seven,	b	Oh .

sd	but neither of them wound up going over, which, I think they were very happy for.	sd	Well, personally, you know, I just went in limbo.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I just didn't know.

qy	Well, so well do you feel that it was worth what we did over there?	ny	yeah,

aa	Okay.	t3	Okay.

qy	I mean, do you think, the investment in lives and money was worth it?	nn	No,

qw	what effects do you think it's had on our country?	bf	Downside. well,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So it's pretty serious, really, you know,

sd	it was such a gradual and subtle, you know you know increasement of force that.	b	Yeah.

na	I vaguely remember we had a, we had a, spy ship torpedoed or something.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh .	bh	Isn't that something?

qy	so, do, do you think that like, for example like in this past war, in the Persian Gulf war that you see, it seemed to me that Bush was going to extraordinary lengths to, you know, prepare the country for war.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Okay.	fc	We'll see you.

fc	good bye.	fc	Yeah,

sd	apparently, you know, they haven't, executed anybody since nineteen sixty seven, I believe.	b	yeah.

sd	Well, we were, we just started, we lived in Redwood City when we were out there.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I think the appeal process is really getting in the way.	b	Uh huh.

qy	do you feel as though there should be, was or more, you might say transgressions that would be enforceable by, capital punishment?	sv	Well I think that currently the way the law stands isn't so much that the laws are enforceable or not,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And nothing is being done about it.

sv	So, I, I mean as man has gotten more complicated so all of the, imaginations to, you know, protect him from being, dumped on by, civilian authority in so , in criminal actions, especially, you know, murder cases and that sort of thing.	sv	Well, well it, it seems as if in the past typically there have been a lot of cases of people being wrongly tried or wrongly punished,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And where his, old evidence was there, the witnesses were there, everything was conclusively pointing to this individual yet ,

o	Okay.	fp	Hi, Nancy.

sd	we do it more when we have company come.	b	Uh huh.

qo	what about you?	sd	Well, we do some dining out.

qw	where, about is that?	sd	well actually there's the Atlantic Cafe and Cafe Pacific, and,

sd	I've been to Cafe Pacific.	bh	Have you?

aa	Right.	sd	It's Highland Park Village.

ny	Yes.	sd	I love it .

sd	and we all ate there	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, their seafood was wonderful.	sv	it's fabulous.

qw	Now where is the Atlantic Cafe?	sd	Atlantic Cafe is down I believe it's on McKinney.

bk	okay.	sd	and originally the two, the guy who owns the Cafe Pacific and the guy who owns the Atlantic Cafe, were partners in the Atlantic Cafe.

sd^e	but I've heard that's really good, too,	sd	It's wonderful.

b	Oh.	sd	So you have to go knowing you're going to be sitting there there for an hour waiting to get in.

bk	okay.	sd	I love it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, my husband really likes their ribs.

bf	You know right away what you want .	sd^m	I know right away what we want.

sd	my in laws also enjoy prime rib, when they've had some of their specials on Sunday, Monday, or Tuesday night	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, the time we went the prime rib was really good.	bh	Was it?

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I've never been there for dinner.

b^r	yeah .	ba	that's great.

sd	I've heard about that, too	sd	Maxwell's nice,

sd	I guess we eat out even less than I realize .	sd	And I didn't think we ate out very often .

b	Oh .	sd	And, one place I'd never been that I would really like to go to, is Lawry's.

sd	I had heard that, too.	sd	I've never been there

qy	Have you been to the little, not for prime rib but the Cafe De France, right here on Central Expressway? * slash error okay. / * slash error should be bk	ny	Yes.

ny	Yes,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, during the week they often have, a limited menu choice but, very reasonable complete dinners for six ninety nine that included the soup or salad entrees and accompaniments and dessert	bh	Really?

sd	my husband and I like veal, a lot	b	Uh huh.

sd	We've tried different ones when they've had them as one of the	^2	The specials.

aa	Uh huh.	qy	Have you ever been to Biffin's?

ar	no,	sd(^q)	and they keep saying, you know, it's wonderful, it's wonderful.

b	Right.	sd^r	And, I've not been there.

sd	down near the Highway Twelve area, is Gershwin's,	sd	I've been there.

qy^d	I don't know if you tried	sd	I've heard of it.

aa	Yes!	qy^d	and it's filled with what, whip cream and strawberries and something?

ny@	yes * Shouldn't this end in a slash? it had a sponge cake * I really think this should be the start of a new slash unit. and whip cream	b	Yeah.

sd	and it had strawberries, kiwis, and raspberries in a raspberry, puree	b	Oh.

sd	and, and we shared one, the three of us	b	Oh.

sd	but, I wished I'd had a camera.	b	Oh.

sd	It was beautiful .	ba	I bet it was.

b	Oh.	sd	and, for dessert we thought we had just stuffed ourselves .

b	Oh.	sd	And, you know, they did, like the raspberry puree, just kind of like in a decoration on the,

b	Oh.	sd	and it was outstanding.

ba	It sounds wonderful.	sd	It was really relatively simple

sd	they must have a special source for getting them because even at the Farmer's Market, you can't find them like that	^2	You can't find them.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And, I thought I would really miss that.

sv	but the atmosphere and service I think, are important, too.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	Because the ones that aren't so good just don't make it.

sd	They do what they call a salad sampler which easily could feed two or three.	bh	really?

sd^t	discussion on child care.	qy	Do you have any children?

nd	they're all grown up.	b	Oh .

sv	well, you know all about it then.	aa	Yes,

sd	I have grandchildren but, haven't really been into selecting child care for them,	b	Oh.

sd	And it's been quite a few years since I've had to think about that.	qy	Do they go to a day care center

sd	my daughter that has three stays home with her children,	ba	that's nice.

sd	but an aunt keeps the baby.	ba	that's nice.

sd	but I would imagine it's very hard.	sv	I think so.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But this one that I'm in now is very good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And like in Pennsylvania for babies, that's what I work with, there has to be a one to four ratio at the most. No more than four babies per care giver.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But we keep it down to like two to one.

ba	well, that's good.	aa	Yeah,

qh	What if you had a fire or something with babies?	aa	I know.

sv	you know, you'd have to be able to get them all out.	sd	What we do is we have these cribs in the back room where they sleep that are, low to the ground

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they're reenforced real strong

sd(^q)	But I was thinking, my gosh, if they had very many babies, they couldn't possibly get them all out.	ar	No .

bf	But you could put them in one of these cribs and then roll the crib out I guess.	aa	Right.

ba	well, that's neat.	b	Yeah,

qrr	or is it just a job for them?	sd	Most really care, in this center, really care.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And really there's only like eight children per room

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that enables them to spend more time with the children.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's easy to get attached to them too.

qw	how old are the children go with this center where you work?	sd	in my room they go from eight weeks to nine months.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And throughout the center it goes up to like age twelve.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I have the real young ones in my room.

bf	You've got the little bitty ones.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	Those are the, probably the best group to have.	sd	you know, they're wonderful.

sv	And they're fun.	aa	Yes.

sv	and they're not quite big enough to be getting into everything yet,	aa	Not quite.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you have to be real careful everything is baby proof.

qy	Do you think there's very many really good day care centers around your area?	b	But, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	there is a lot of college educated people and stuff that are in the centers that really seem to have an idea of what's going on.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, in general though I've been really disappointed with a lot of other centers I've worked at, and all

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's not my choice for when I have children

bf	Sometimes it's a have to.	aa	Yes.

^q	I wish I could find someplace I really felt good about. You know?	b	Uh huh.

sd	Most of them don't really feel that it's a great place to leave their kids.	ba	That is sad.

^q	and we just now found her.	br	What?

sd	They had left her on the bus closed up all afternoon.	ba	my God.

^q	if they'll take a group of kids to the zoo or somewhere and then come back and not even count them and realize they're one short.	b	Oh.

sd	But one of the teachers happened to walk by and see her pounding on the window trying to get out of the bus.	ba	my God.

sd	And this was four hours later, you know.	ba	that poor child.

qh	what do you do?	ba	That's awful.

qo	How do you feel about credit cards?	sd	Personally, I do not care for them. although I find them a necessity in business and so forth,

b	Uh huh.	sd	The one I use, of course, mostly, only for business purposes is, you know, American Express.

b	Right.	sd	And, I'm not terribly in favor of them.

b	Right.	sd	Plus you know, from an economic point of view it has increased our debt tremendously to the tune of somewhere on the order of five to ten billion, I believe

ba	Wow.	sd	at least that's one number for this range of numbers I have heard.

b	Right.	qy	Do you use them frequently

sd	I think it was like twenty something cents interest, on our Visa.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But we don't like to do that at all.	b	Yes.

sd	and I think we have a couple of department stores.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, we use it the same way,	sd	I find the one I use mostly,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, a , as with the American Express, I try to pay it, you know, as it comes in.

sd	That's usually how we do it.	sd	I know or when I used to travel overseas quite a bit, what I would do on my American Express card is before I left I would mail a check to American Express and, you know, have some idea of how much was there, you know, I'd sent them, you know, several hundred dollars, or whatever I felt I would spend. } And then use it then.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, for hotels and so forth.

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, sometimes I would go over,

sv	but, I guess if you foresaw that you were going to have to use it, like that, that may be good.	sd	Well, I found I found in traveling overseas that, often it would expedite things to have an American Express credit card for hotel bills and so forth.

b	Yeah.	sd	Plus when they, would send the bill, they would automatically convert to the exchange rate.

b^r	right.	sd	So, now, the only time that got to be a problem was, if the exchange rate changed drastically.

b	Uh huh.	sd	for example, I remember on one trip to France when I started planning the trip, I think, a dollar was worth nine or ten

b	Uh huh.	sd	And when I finally got over there, it had fallen, two or three francs to the dollar.

ba	Wow .	sd	So, I got caught a little short in that regard,

ba	Wow.	sd	but, I was anticipating, you know, my room would cost, let's say

b	Yeah.	sd	if it were, say sixty or seventy francs a night that would mean it would be about ten dollars or so, or maybe twenty dolls ,

b	Right.	sd	maybe it would be more than that.

b	Right.	sd	But then when I got back and I was working for the government at the time

b	Uh huh.	sd	of course the government was several months behind in, their, on its per diem for exchange rate.

b	Right.	sd	So there's a little consternation, you know, in trying to get them to compensate, for the difference in the exchange rate.

aa	Yeah	sd	That was the only time I really got caught short.

sd	from the Dallas area.	bf	So you're from Dal ,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah .

qy	Do you work for T I?	nn	No.

bh	Well, really.	ny	Yes.

qy^d	I wonder how T I got G T E involved.	sd	Well, I know Jack Godfrey.

bk	okay.	sd	I know him very well.

bk	okay.	sd^t	So, when I heard that Jack was going to do this, I called him and asked for an application where I could participate in this.

b^r	yeah.	sd^t	And, so that's how I got involved.

sv	your speech is very exact.	ft	Thank you very much .

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

ba	Wow.	sd^t	And so, I was very much interested, in getting involved in, switchboard.

b	Yeah.	qy^d	So, you work for T I?

sd^e	I work in .	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	sd^t	I guess we're supposed to do this part of it before we started the recording .

sv^t	so I think we're okay.	aa	Alright.

fc	Well, you too.	fc	It's been pleasant talking to you.

fc	Same here.	fc	Take care.

ba	that's great.	sd	We have a nine year old.

qy	Have you ever been there?	na	when both of my kids were much younger.

sv	that's a perfect age for Disneyworld.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I don't work.	ba	wonderful.

sd	and in the position he's in, they don't care if I go along.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and Disneyworld is the one for a week next year	b	Sure.

sd	and this year matter of fact we're leaving next Saturday for New Orleans.	sv	that will be fun, too.

qy	have you ever been there?	ny	Yes.

sd	because it wasn't a tremendous amount of things to do. That I wanted to do there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they do have a Mardi Gras night planned.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Did you know that next week there's several T V shows coming from there in celebration of their anniversary.	nn	No,

sd	she's old enough to really grasp the meaning behind,	b	Yes.

sv	so, well, if you're working, then you're probably on a limited amount of time per year that you can go.	ar	Well, not really,

sd(^q)^t	when I heard my topic today, I thought, okay that's my favorite	^2	How easy .

sd	and, it has just worked out really well with this, position he's in. Because I can go at a spur of the moment or what have you	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it depends where he's going whether or not I decide to go along	b	Sure.

sd	I don't mind the pool life at all during the day.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I love to shop.	b	Uh huh.

aa	That's right,	bf	And then got to pick and choose the places.

sd	Well, and one of my very favorite is Las Vegas.	b	Oh.

sd	I would have to say we both end up going to Las Vegas, probably once every maybe year and a half.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And presently we have quite a few frequent flyer miles	b	Uh huh.

sd	because we have a lot of flying with Continental	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're recommending that you use those because they don't know the future of Continental.	aa	Right,

^q	we better start using them.	aa	That's true.

sd	when we normally go that way, we like to go to California at the same time, because we really don't get out there as often as you could probably from Texas.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that's a good trip.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And really, for the children to learn as well for a family vacation that would be excellent.	b	Right.

sd	and we went through the northern route and through Utah and as far west as Las Vegas	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we returned through, New Mexico that you just mentioned.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it was it was just great.	sv	there's too much to see really.

sv	and, unless you do something like that, you're going to get sick.	aa	Right.

sd	But if it gets longer than that I, i , it, I start not doing anything.	b	Yeah.

sv	you obviously are not an exercise buff or else you'd be out there doing it.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I mean I started doing this when I was about thirty five	b	Yeah.

sd	and now I'm fifty five.	b	Yeah.

sd	I need to lose fifty pounds, you know.	b	Right.

qy	have you ever done anything at all?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That was a little bit too much money.

qw	what club are you with?	br	I'm sorry?

qw^r	What club were you with?	sd	It's called, oh, what was it called . City Sports, downtown Washington.

bf	So you're down, you're downtown.	aa	Yeah.

bf	You're down there on, you know, twentieth and eighteenth and F G.	aa	Yeah.

sd	But generally, you know, I can get in and get a program, you know.	b	Right.

sd	I mean, I've been doing this for fifteen, twenty years.	b	Yeah.

sd	and so I really don't want to, you know, back off on it.	aa	Yeah.

sv	and you can recover.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, I feel that it's pretty good if they feel like there is a vast majority of the people at the company doing drugs.	qy	Do they feel that way?

sd	but I think our latest statistic said something like ninety nine point nine eight percent were, testing negative on all the dru , on all the testing.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think it can cause a lot of problems even though they think they can handle it.

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So I think it's a good idea

b	Right.	sd	I don't know that their job would be at risk,

b	Right.	sv	I would think that,

sd	and then you're called like six months after you complete the program	b	Uh huh.

sd	and if you test positive, then you're terminated.	sd	Well, , I guess I draw a hard line ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you expect them to do their job

sd	and, of course they can also cause injury to other people.	b	Uh huh.

sd	if they're not, you know, fully functional mentally while they're doing their job. They could cause you know, serious injury to another people.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it would be, you know, out of the question.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Also, I guess you can, you know, get the wrong kind of stuff and kill yourself just by having a wrong mix of or watered down or or whatever, all kinds.

b	yeah.	sd	I sub in the schools

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I've, you know, had a,

b	Right.	sd	and I think it's good that they're trying to start some programs down in the elementary schools.

b	Right.	sv	But, you know, I think they can test all they want for drugs you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know many of them are doing it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I don't know how many others are doing that

aa	That's right.	h	and, , I don't know,

sd	they say, runs approximately a thousand dollars a person every time you do it.	bh	Really?

sd^e	it's very expensive.	b	Oh.

sd	It's not like a normal urinalysis	b	Uh huh.

sd	because, nobody in our company got a raise.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, yet they spend all the money on drug testing	bf	Just lucky to have jobs.

sd	that, I think that's more of a personal view of mine other than a yes, sir, we should have drug testing because there's really a problem	b	Uh huh.

sd	But then, I have other views to it.	sd	I didn't think it was that expensive because my son was in probably a week and a half period

b	Uh huh.	sd	and Sam's and Wal Mart are owned by the same people

b	Uh huh.	sd	he took one for, Wal Mart for job hiring

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then Sam's called him

b	Right.	sd	and you know, I don't know why they both made him do that since it was so close together.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can see if ,

sd	from what I understanding here at T I, they run close to a thousand dollars an employee.	sd	Well, maybe they run,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I just can't imagine them screening all these employees, paying a thousand dollars to get them.

o	Okay.	qr	So are you a freshwater or,

sd	Mostly freshwater,	sd^r	Freshwater,

sd	so I don't fish too much in saltwater.	b	Uh huh.

ba	neat,	sd	and, I have caught one or two small sharks

bh	really.	ny	and, yes.

qw	What'd you do with them?	sd	Put them back .

qy^d	You didn't get a big kick out of killing them like some people do?	nn	No,

qy	and there's no limit.	qh^m	Is there a limit?

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, they do a lot of shark fishing you know, in the gulf

b	Right.	sd	and, there's a certain period of time during the year all along the gulf coast from, I guess from Galveston to Mayport they have, shark tournaments,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think I've been trout fishing once.

sv	That looks awful tiring .	sd	I've tried it once,

qy	Did you.	ny	yes,

qy^d	Didn't like it?	nn	no.

sd	It's a rhythm or something .	b	Uh huh.

^g	right .	ny	Yes .

qrr	or do you eat what you fish.	nn	no,

b	Right.	sv	you know, there are people who fish,

b	Right.	sd	Well, I'm a fisher .

qy^g	You just like to sit down and watch it, right.	na	That's right,

b	Really.	sd	and occasionally we'd go out on a, you know, full day trip, you know, three or four other people and do either, again, bottom fishing or or for grouper

b	Right.	sd	or, you know, I've caught a few worthwhile snappers, red snappers and gray snappers and so forth.

ba	That's nice.	qo	What about you a,

sd	Well, most of my fishing is done at, area lakes around here, freshwater lakes	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's a fairly new lake in Texas.	aa	yes.

^q	I was out there for a reason .	sd	The last time I went, bass fishing,

b	Really.	sd	my daughter caught fish,

bf	Everybody but you.	sd	I did not even,

bf	Couldn't catch one to save your life.	aa	That's right,

bf	just hoping maybe, he could pull .	aa	Right,

b	Right.	sd	But, I enjoy it though.

b	Yeah.	sd	And they do, of course, you know,

b	Right.	sd	and they do a lot of fishing there.

sv	That would be fun.	sd	And, that I was able to do, when I could go in and go down and actually pick them off the bottom.

bf	Hand picked .	aa	That right .

sd	We were in, Rockport, which is close to Corpus	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it can't be a fish.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was brown with these little white dots	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it made a loud, almost a croaking noise like a croaker does	b	Uh huh.

sd	To this day I don't want to get in the water, anywhere around salt water because I'm sure one of those fish are there.	sd	I guess the weirdest thing I've ever caught is, in some of the inlets and the rivers around Delaware.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They have a fish that's called an oyster cracker.

ng	I've never heard of that one.	sd	and it has a huge strong mouth,

bf	That's where it gets its name, obviously,	aa	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I guess the largest one I ever caught was probably eight or ten inches long,

qy	Can you eat them?	nn	No,

sd	I don't think I'd want to even if you could if they're that ugly,	sd	they just look as though you do not want to do anything with them.

sd	it scared me to death.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it really, it didn't look like, it looked like it was something out of the dark ages that just never died.	sd	Well, the first time I went surf fishing was in ,

b	Oh.	sd	I had never seen anything,

qw	so what basketball teams are you interested in?	sd	Well, I guess I'm a big L A Laker fan, when it comes to pros.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the college ranks, I guess I really,

b	Uh huh	sv	But they don't have much of a team usually.

sv	they're more of a football team than they are basketball team.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	You never see them on nationally basketball.

sd	I don't think I've ever seen them nationally on basketball.	sv	last year they had a really good team,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That was about five, six years ago by now.

sv	That's not too bad.	sd	and they usually lose in the first round.

b	Uh huh.	qo	How about you?

sd	So, I do pull for Chicago.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, of course, this year is a good year to be a Chicago fan, I guess, because they're doing pretty good.	qy	Is it the Bulls you're talking about?

ny^r	yeah.	b	Yeah,

sd	so, so, I finally am feeling better about myself as far as college teams. Although, I've really, you know,	bh	Is that right?

sd	again being from Saint Louis, I pull for Missouri.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so you can't do much about that.	aa	No,

sd^e	I watched every, I watched all three games of that.	^2*	Every game?

sd	so it was real nice to have the teams that were there.	b	Right,

sd	but, I was real happy to see them get knocked off.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, it was a good game.

b	yeah.	sd	It was a very close game, and hard fought game.

b	Yeah.	sv	but, as far as playing together as a team that day, Duke seemed to have them off balance.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And that, they couldn't,

sd^e	they play the pro style, is, what I've always called it.	b	Right.

b^m	the fast breaks and,	sv	They shut all that down and made them play half court it seemed

sd	but they weren't ahead as much as they normally are.	b	Right.

sd	and they've not had to do that all year	aa	Right,

sv	I mean Duke's schedule was so much harder than U N L V's that it just made them a much tougher team overall,	b	Right.

sv	and, that had to help them a lot.	sv	I think that probably was the difference in that game.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Because it really could have gone either way. Down to the end, you know.

qy	So do I take it that you think though that the Lakers will, will win	no	I don't know.

sv	I mean, Portland's pretty good.	sd	Since Kareem's retired, they haven't had a center.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, they've got Perkins,

b	Yeah.	sv	but I don't think he's really been a super star for them.

sv	he's more of a, a real tall forward .	b	Yeah.

sv	I think Magic does a,	sv	They'll make it, you know,

aa	yeah.	sv^r	That's going to be a war.

aa	That sure is.	sv	It's going to be a great series.

sv	I think that's going to be one of those that's won by the home team, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	whoever has home court advantage is going to win that one I think.	sv	One of those two will probably be, in there,

sd	Detroit's in that, that same, division.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but as I heard, Isaiah came back this week.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, that might help them.	aa	Yeah.

b	yeah.	sd	I mean, so does Chicago. So do , all three of them do, with Larry Bird back,

b	yeah.	sv	you can never count the Celtics out when Larry Bird's, starting to click on all cylinders.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They say he's starting to play,

sv	yeah but he's been, yeah, but he's been kind of up and down all year.	b	Right.

sv	and then the next time he'll, you know, he can't seem to hit the side of a barn.	b	Right.

h	So, I don't know,	b	Right.

sd	I'm kind of, I'm not sure about him this year.	sd	Last I've heard is that he's starting to peak right now.

sv	Well that's when, you do it.	sd	He's, starting to be more consistent, you know, at the right time of the year.

b	Yeah.	sd	any dark horses I, you know,

b^m	Well, the dark horses,	sv	San Antonio, San Antonio is the dark horse that could really flip in there, I think.

sv	Well, anybody who has David Robinson, has got to have a chance anyway.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	against any team he would dominate,

aa	That's right.	sd	I mean, it looks like he's going in for a dunk

b	Uh huh.	sv	nobody's got enough beef, I guess, to challenge him when he's driving hard to the hoop.

aa	That's true.	sv	With Roy Tarpley they're in big trouble.

sv	so, they don't have to worry about that.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but I, read that,	sd	I heard he was suspended. Because of his,

sd	maybe I misunderstood what they meant.	sd	If they did, they'd still have to pay his contract .

b	Well, yeah	sd	They may have done it.

sv	you never know.	sd	It was a lot of money.

b	Yeah	sd	I heard on the radio it was sixty three thousand and change a month.

b	Yeah.	sv	boy, what a good job he had .

aa	That's what I think.	sv	He ruined his sweet position .

b	Yeah .	b	Yeah.

qy^g	It's coming up, isn't it.	sd	L A,

na^r	Portland.	b^m	Portland.

b	Uh huh.	qw	What do they have

sv	So, it ought to be a real interesting play off.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	I don't think there's any clear pick, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I guess the two teams that you can't count out are the Celtics because of Bird, and the Lakers because of Magic Johnson.

b	Uh huh.	sv	They are two guys that seem to find a way when they,

^2	When it's on the line.	sv^m	When it's on the line, they seem to find a way. You know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	so, those are what makes a champion I guess.

aa	that's true.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, it's been nice talking to you.	fc	Nice talking to you.

fc	Take care.	fc	Take care.

sd	and I made some, candle sconces that you hang on the ...	b	Yeah,

sd	I don't know if it's the saw dust or the mess you make or the smell of the wood	sv	As you know, I think it's more like the mess you make, isn't it?

qw	What are some of your things you like to do?	sd	Well, when I have time I do like to sew,

b	Yeah.	sd	My mother was real heavy into crafts,

b	yeah.	sd	So, a lot of times I'd help her with that.

sv	it's a good time for gardening.	aa	yeah,

sd	but I think the temperature has been pretty good so far for working outside.	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you find you do most of your, crocheting or your knit work around Christmas time?	sd	I usually start in the fall.

b	Yeah.	sd	And my husband says I do it, you know, make afghans so I can keep my lap warm.

sd	She enjoys doing it during the cold weather because she's always got something to cover her legs and feet with while she is working on it.	b	Yeah.

sv	So, those things they take some time to make.	aa	Yeah,

bf	Well, that's kind of like quilting.	b	Yeah,

b^m	Mile a Minute.	sd^r	Mile a Minute.

qy^g	I guess that is your standard knitting, isn't it?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I know,	ad^t	If we have a problem with our connection and get disconnected some time or other, don't worry about it.

bk	okay.	sd	And my husband says that's called rinky dink .

bf	Instead of call waiting or call anything else.	ar	No,

sv	Well, I guess that's one way to end a conversation.	aa	Yeah,

qy	have you started your garden yet?	ny	Yes.

ba	boy.	t1	what else did I get in there,

sv	always got to have those.	b	Yeah.

sd	but always got to the keep those planted.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, that's kind of the way I am,	sv	Besides they're fun to grow.

sd	It seems like all I got was,	sd	Supposedly after the soil warms up.

sd(^q)	Mom would say you planted them in the wrong sign of the moon. You know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I hadn't looked at a farmers almanac to find out when a good time for zucchini is.	sd	I doubt if zucchini is in there.

am^r	it may not be.	sv	Probably the same time the other squash is though.

qy	You think they're later in the year?	ny	Yeah.

sd	Most of the okra that is growing around higher is, later okra.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well that's about,	sd	We decided this year,

ad	Go ahead.	fa	I'm sorry,

ft	and thanks for participating.	aa	All right.

fc	have a good time.	fc	Okay.

sd	I drive a Honda Prelude.	bh	Do you?

b	yeah .	b	Yeah .

sd	so I'm not buying a car any time soon.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I love it though.

b	Yeah.	sd	I think I found my car.

sd	Well, I like where all the controls are they're, they're in good spots	b	Right.

sd@	and I have an automatic I can't drive a standard. / * Why weren't the 2 indep clauses split up into separate slash units?	bh	really,

ny	Yeah.	sd	I have a standard.

sd	the only thing I've ever heard about Hondas is that the breaks go out first.	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	sd	I hadn't heard that.

b	Yeah.	qw	What did you have before you bought that.

sd	I had a Buick Regal.	bh	Did you?

ny	Yeah.	sd	I had, a Mazda R X Seven before that

sd	and it, was still going strong.	bh	Really?

sd	The only problems I had with it in the nine years that I owned it, I had to replace the compressor when it was about seven years old.	bh	Really?

sd	I had like little piddly things like I had to replace the muffler	b	Yeah.

sd	But I never had any major anything, other than the compressor.	b	Right.

aa	Huh uh.	sd	And so I went ahead and bought another standard when I bought the Honda

sd	so I don't drive one a lot.	b	Right.

sd	So, I don't feel comfortable in traffic with it.	b	Right.

sd	And for everything I've heard it's a lot easier to sell an automatic.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And, and resale value is really important to me .	aa	That's true.

b	Yeah.	sd	Hondas have great resale value.

b	Yeah.	sd	The Mazda definitely did not .

sd	but, it still looked real nice,	b	Yeah.

sd	there wasn't cracks all over the dash board and stuff.	b	Right.

sd	So I ended up okay with the Buick,	ba	Good.

sd	of course, I may never sell it ,	b	Right.

sd	I may drive it until it's dead	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	so, probably what I'll do again.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I really like the Hondas.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I looked at the Mitsubishi Galant.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it was so small

b	Yeah.	sd	But I found it hard to deal with the dealership I was going through.

b	Oh.	sd	So, that's how I ended up with a Honda.

sd	So, I went to a dealership because they had like, the same year and same model, of Prelude on their used car lot	b	Right.

sd	and, you know, I just fell in love, with this brand new white Prelude, you know, two liter S I with the sun roof and the moon roof	b	yeah.

sd	and I, bought it loaded.	b	yeah.

sd	The oth , the two, other things that I bought on impulse are a V C R and a washer , and dryer.	ba	I understand.

sd	I go for the big stuff.	b	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	and I got it right after high school.

sd	I got, I got my Buick as a high school graduation gift.	sd@	Ready to go. / * I really think this should be a continuation of B.101 utt 2.

sd	and I was just scared to.	b	Right.

sd	I was scared to start taking on payments because the Buick was long since paid for.	aa	Right.

br^r	wha , ar , you, buy a used car?	aa	Right.

na	Sure.	sd	I was going to buy one once

b	Yeah.	sd	Just, I can't seem to get over that.

sd	and you can have them checked out by mechanics and stuff.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I mean they can't stop you from doing it.	bf	Hoping that they do go to a Honda dealership to get them serviced.

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, and even if they didn't, you can still get a good idea if you can get a good mechanic to, check it over real carefully and check the block and everything.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, I enjoyed talking to you.	fc	I enjoyed talking to you.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qy	Do you have smog like they do in California?	no	some,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the sun is trying, tries to shine through

sv	It depends on whether you have some sort of temperature inversion, I take it.	aa	I think so,

b	Yeah.	sd	and we have, uh, Pasadena, Texas which is sort of between here an, you know, heading toward Galveston,

qw	What do you think is your primary cause of it.	sv	Well, I think it's industry

qy	You really think cars contribute a lot now that they've taken lead out of gas?	h	well maybe not,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, comes right into my air conditioner

ba	my goodness.	sd	I don't know if it's, uh, if it's partly from what's blooming, you know, right now, pollen and stuff like that,

sv	I don't think the newer automobiles are as polluting, uh, frankly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	something to the effect that if they could just pay to get twenty percent, or, take all the cars off the road that have been, uh, manufactured say before nineteen seventy five, that they could cut the automobile pollution by over fifty percent just by getting rid of those cars that are still left remaining.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	that is, not, not total but just from cars,	bk	Oh, uh huh.

sd	and I don't have an incentive to get rid of it as long as it keeps running good and not costing me any money.	b	Uh huh.

sv	On the other hand I know it's a much more polluter than any of the newer model cars I have.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I don't have any incentive to get out of it until it dies.	b	Right.

sv	And, uh, that may be part of the problem.	qy	Do you all have pollution in your co , part of the country, uh, from industry?

sv	I, I we, we seem to have a high, uh, cancer rate up here in Maryland.	bh	Really,

ny	Yeah,	qr	any particular kind or just all kinds?

sv	but I just can't believe it is.	b	Um.

sd	They use freon twenty two in air conditioning systems in houses and the like and heat pumps,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and that's also what's causing our atmosphere to lose it's ozone layer.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	and having all kinds of effects,	qw	Well what can we do about the, the, the, the air conditioning problem?

sd	I know DuPont and Dow and several other chemical companies are working, uh, feverishly to try to come up with a substitute for fluorocarbons,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because if they ever come up with a reasonable working agent in place of fluorocarbons, then, uh,	qy	Is that also what's in, uh, hairsp , aerosol?

sd	but they made them take it out of that.	qy^d	Even, so, so the aerosol is still aerosol,

na	Right.	qy^d	but it doesn't have anything that's damaging.

sd^e	they, they, they passed a law and made them take the fluorocarbons out of the aerosol containers,	b	Uh huh,

sd	but in this state we have special containers now we have to put all our cans and bottles and plastic pieces, uh, you know, containers in,	sd	Here, they've just started, started doing that,

sd	and she spot checks people's trash.	ba	No kidding,

sd	And if they find a bottle or a can or anything like that in your trash, they'll fine you fifty bucks I think the first time and two fifty the second time.	bh	Is that right.

sd	They've stopped that up here too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	for instance cans and bottles, they never go away at all.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm not sure of that.	qo	How much does, uh, planting more trees and things like that help?

sv	I, I really think that, uh, trying to get along with your environment and help it out is a very, very important thing.	b	Uh huh.

sv	That's for sure.	sv	I think, uh, it seems like there was something going on, around here, that, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and some of the stuff that they weren't supposed to do that somebody found out, you know, like in the middle of the night, they would go ahead and do it anyway.

ba	Oh good.	sd	But I wonder how much of that kind of stuff, you know, goes on.

sd	because we have to go down, uh, once a year here in Maryland and get out car's exhaust systems checked for emission content.	sd	Uh, we have to, uh, we have to have a state inspection every year.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Do you all have that?

sd	but any time you sell a car or buy a car it has to be inspected in this state.	qy^d	So I'm assu , I'm assuming that, you know, they check, they check everything for safety

sd	But in this state we have to, uh, pay eight dollars and a half and go to a, an emission station once a year and get every one of our cars checked that are, have been made starting in nineteen seventy three.	qy^d	But that's all they check for,

sv	in Virginia they check that every two years, I think.	sd	We do that ev , every year.

sv	And that's, that goes a long ways towards cutting pollutants.	sd	Well I'll have to check,

sv	and if they don't then that's something I would certainly, uh, uh, suggest you be willing to uh, uh, be for in terms of, uh,	sd	Oh, I would .

b^r	yeah.	sd	I'm for anything that cleans up the air or the water or, or, or anything.

sd	I've worried, especially the last few years about just how good the water supply we have in this country is for drinking and the like.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I know a lot more people are going to bottled water.	nd	Well

b^m	tap,	sv	well, you know, a lot of people have well water,

b	Uh huh.	sd	if you don't get it tested you don't necessarily know what you're, what you're drinking

sd	I forget what you call those things,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, I can still to this day taste that water.	sd	when I was growing up I lived in Huntsville, Alabama,

b	Yeah.	sd	and their water supply came from, uh, spring.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it was like ice cold, spring water

ba	Oh, I bet it was.	sv	It was really, really good.

sd	cause I went through the public, um, school system of Boston,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I still didn't even I, I couldn't put together a map of the United State.	b	Um.

qy	You know what I mean.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	an I, couldn't do it.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	I just felt like there were some real basics that are missing from education,	b	Uh.

sv	and the people are, are leaving school not even knowing some common sense things.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's, we're doing it at N C State,

b	Yeah.	sd	we're trying to improve the computer science curriculum,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So that's kind of in a higher level .

b	Right.	sv	So it's interesting that you chose that topic .

qr	um, did you do through a public school system or private?	ny	Yeah,

qy	did you notice a big difference?	ny	Oh, yeah,

qo	Like in what sense?	sv	Well, um, in, uh, public schools I guess there wer , there are a lot of, of, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, um, private school you couldn't do that,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	you had to learn.

sd	an they're people that come in, you know, every day to fill out an application,	b	Uh huh.

sd	yet when it comes to even answering the questions on a simple application, they can't read enough to be able to fill out the answers by themselves,	b	Uh.

sv	it's just incredible.	b	Yeah,

b	Really.	sd	So they're making all kind of cuts

b	Yeah.	sv	It's pretty sorry.

sv	I think it's, um, some place in New York because they're having budget problems, they're closing the libraries.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean they're not getting rid of any of the sports, or anything like that,	b	Uh.

sv	That to me shows a little, uh, switch in priorities.	b	Yeah.

qy	So do you go to college right now?	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	You're a, so you're a senior now.	ny	Yeah,

ba	Oh, good for you.	b	Yeah.

qy	um, is, is N C University is that, uh, State,	sd	N C State.

br	What did you say?	sd^r	N C State.

qy^d	that's a State University then.	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	And you're from there also?	ny	Well, yeah,

bk	I see.	sd	And now I'm back here going to school.

sv	Well, pretty soon it's going to get to the point where no one is going to be able to afford to send their kids to college or to do go to college.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's just a outrageously expensive.	sd	Luckily state is one of the cheap ones.

qy	Oh is it.	ny	Yeah.

sv	I mean, you know, thousands of dollars,	sv	Yeah, state's not that bad .

ba	Oh, well, that's good.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I, I think that I probably would have done it differently if I, um, you know, could do it over again.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	and that's probably a pretty sad thing to say	b	Yeah,

h	I don't know,	qw	Where did you go?

br	what?	qw^r	Where did you go?

sd	I went to Brandice University.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, um, I really felt like I've been working now for about four years,	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	and I, I feel like what I've learned working is a hundred times more valuable then what learned in school.	b	Oh.

sd	and one thing she's trying to instill in kids, um, besides just reading and writing are just some, the golden rules,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Like no hitting, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think they don't value that type of student as much as you get, in some.	b	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean personally I would get more satisfaction out of taking someone that wasn't as successful.	b	Yeah.

sv	And seeing what they could do verses somebody that did excel in, in areas and just watching them get better, you know.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	That's not much of a challenge.	aa	That's true.

qy	But ar , do you have any ideal what you're going into when you graduate.	na	Um, graduate school .

bh	Oh yeah.	ny	Yeah.

qy	Do you know where you're going?	na	I think I'm going to Chappel Hill.

qw	Where's that?	sd	That's in Chappel Hill .

qy	Oh is that North Carolina?	ny	Yeah.

bk	Oh, okay.	qy^d	Never heard of the, uh, Tarheels?

sd^e	I don't know that area.	qy^d	The A C C Tarheels, U N C?

ng	I just don't know it.	b	Oh, uh, .

sd	I don't get down there very often.	sd	They won the final four, in boy's basket ball.

sd	well the way I pick the final four was, um, by the state that had the warmest climate.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	so obviously you're into education.	ny	Yeah.

sd	my husband went to, is in graduate school actually right now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I couldn't wait to graduate and have, it be all over.	b	Yeah,

aa	I know.	sd	I've got all of this stuff due

fc	Good luck.	fc	All right,

fc	take care.	fc	All right,

qw	What kind, h ,	qw	What kind of cars do you, do you usually drive?

sd	Right now we, I've got a, uh, four year old Subaru and a two year old Honda.	ba	Oh, my goodness.

b	Oh, goodness.	b	Yeah,

bh	Really?	sd	At least two of them.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Turns out that's a pretty good place to buy cars because they maintain them

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we've got a eighty four Toyota that we bought used.

ba	I bet.	sd	You're one short.

ba^r	I bet.	sv	but you know, it's interesting the two,

b	Yep.	sd	as we got older and got away,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, and, of course you don't buy General Motors products over there .

aa	No.	sd	But we bought a Volvo

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, uh, we bought a, uh,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	But we really liked that.

sd	these are the first cars that my husband and I have ever purchased ourselves.	b	Um.

sd	The others were hand me downs through the families.	b	Yeah.

sd	And those were always G M cars.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	Uh, Buicks and Chevrolets.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but all the ones that we ever had were the, you know, eight cylinder,	b	Oh, yeah.

sd	really rugged, G M cars.	bf	The b , the big,

sd	and we both drive, well, forty five miles round trip every day.	b	Sure,

sd	And so we wanted a smaller car,	b	Yeah.

sv	and quite frankly, we were afraid of the, of the G M small cars.	b	Uh huh,

sd	You know, as far as durability.	b	Right.

sd	when we had our larger cars, we didn't mind, uh, keeping them up,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, doing the maintenance and everything on them as long as we didn't have to do it very often.	b	Yeah.

sd	it just kind of seemed to be the magic number for them .	b^r	Yeah,

aa	Yeah	sd	And I'm afraid we're going to be in that in another year with all of ours,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And we'll probably be there with all of them.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	Uh, but, uh, we went on a family trip to Massachusetts

b	Right.	sd	And I rented a Buick Le Sabre,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's the first big car I had since I had my nine passenger Impala station wagon from seventy six to eighty.

sv	It's like a yacht.	sv	It was just nice.

sd	we, we sold or we, we traded in our Le Sabre for our Subaru.	b	Oh, yeah.

sv	it was a great car.	b	Yeah.

sd	we ran the wheels right off of it.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And there is a, amazing,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, we used to think Ford products were tinny.

aa	That's right.	sv	But just with the quality requirements that Ford is putting on us and the way they come into our plants

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, uh, uh, we went to, uh, Austin a while back to a basketball tournament

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and we went up to the local Budget

b	Um.	sd	And we drove that down

ba	I bet .	sd	We had that for three days.

aa	No.	b	Uh,

sv	I wouldn't want to have to pay for the gas, either.	sd	but I absolutely loved that automobile.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Uh, and, you know, we just got it out on the highway and put it in cruise control at about sixty and let it, let it float.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	And, it was pretty nice.

sd^e	Uh, we're, our, our, we won't have any more licensed drivers for about thirteen years.	b	Um.

sd	Both of our cars are getting, oh, around sixty thousand miles on them.	b	Um.

sd	We drive a lot.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Uh, we've got,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's right,

b^m	A pickup {faint}.	sd	I may get one and not let him have it .

b	Uh huh.	sd	These, uh, uh, red Chevy pickups,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, uh, my boss just bought a Chevy pickup

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I'm going to try that the next time I buy one.

sv	I think that would be a good idea.	sd	And, and, so, you know, I can go around and comparison shop and see if I can get a better negotiation on my own.

sd(^q)	I've, we've, we've, we've kind of been the types that will say, this is what we intend to spend,	b	Yeah.

^q	will you sell me this car for that price.	^2	And for that price.

sd(^q)	and we're were just, like, okay fine, we, we won't then.	bf	We'll go somewhere else.

sd(^q)	I mean he's like, no, no, no.	b	Yeah.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and this guy gave me this deal, you know,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I, I left there

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And I called the guy and made an appointment to come up Monday morning

ba	Goodness.	sd	is all we paid for cars in those days.

aa	That's right.	sd	and for the longest time then I drove up to Will's Point

qo	Um, so what do you think?	^h	Um,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And in Sweden they have socialized medicine.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	Uh, some of the, some of the good obviously that nobody has to worry about health care.

b	Right.	sv	So it's a very, it's a very, uh, comfortable,

b^r	Right.	sv	Um, the bad was more apparent I think at least for me

bh	Oh, really?	sd	Because it's treated as a disease.

b	Huh.	sv	Also, um, another thing that, that I noticed that was very strange,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Well, it would be lower middle class housing here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Um, and there was a taxi driver that lived in one of these

b	Huh.	sv	Whereas here, there is a great incentive to be a doctor because there's a great financial reward.

b	Right.	sd	And that, that didn't exist in Sweden.

b^r	Right.	sv	And, uh, overall I gue , their, their health care suffered fair amount from just the fact that the doctor salaries were lower

sv	and I'm sure they can get a lot cheaper because they, they, hospitals buy in such a bulk rate, um	b	Right.

sv	And I don't think that is, that is, uh, abnormal in any means to be doing things like that.	qy^d	You don't think it's abnormal?

sv	I don't think it's abnormal for hospitals to be doing that at all .	b	Oh, I see.

sv	I, I think the fact that malpractice has gone up I think has raised our prices just dramatically. Um, in the, in the last number of years	aa	Yes.

qo	What do you think about it?	sd	Uh, well, immigration,

sd	I worked with Spanish people for about two years	b	Uh huh.

sv	and just, it was incredible to me to see the things that they had to go through when they were really some of the best workers.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	You know, that's not good enough.

aa	exactly.	sv	Not a good, not a good easy way to get in.

sv	I think, you know, I think in a lot of ways the law is good because it tries to, to protect, you know, the people who are in the states.	aa	Exactly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	n , she'd never even meet them

bh	Oh, you're kidding.	nn	Huh uh.

sv	it's amazing to me how, how many things they would allow to occur before, you know, you can come in.	aa	Exactly.

sv	it's kind of frustrating, too, for those who are legitimate now.	aa	Exactly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they got here,

sv	because really they're the ones who work the hardest and do the jobs that, that we don't want to do.	aa	I agree.

sv	I think, that, you know, if someone wants to come in and they can prove that they're going to work and they're going to be a good citizen that we shouldn't close our door.	aa	Exactly.

sv	And, you know, I, I believe that if someone goes on welfare that's when, you, you know, send them back to their country.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, I think a lot of times we're so busy trying to keep them out that we're spending twice as much money as we would just allowing them in	sv	Well, think of how many illegal aliens have, have, have been, uh, uh, sent back to Mexico just to find their way back.

sd	and just basically what they do is they get caught when they wanted to go home for Christmas. Or for any other time.	sv	That's right,

sv	but, but there could be some work done in the area.	aa	I, I agree.

qy	Anyway, do you have anything else in the, the subject, uh that you might want to talk about?	fe	boy

sv	because if you, if you have connections, it's a lot easier to get in.	aa	Exactly.

sv	and I think, you know, it should be more of a thing that's based upon someone's intent, you know. And that it should be equal to all	b	Yeah.

sv	it d , it doesn't become a thing of who you know, but, but how the type of person you are.	aa	I agree.

sv	And it should be based on those kinds of things so the good people, like probably your husband, can get in .	b	Yeah .

ba	Well, great.	sv	I know there's a lot of other people out there, would probably do a good job here.

sd	and I've learned something from it.	aa	I did, too.

fc	You have a good evening, all right?	fc	You, too.

fc	bye bye.	fc	Bye.

sv	but it makes it really convenient cause I keep a rather hectic schedule	b	Right,

sv	but the newspaper p , provides a little bit of depth that you can't really get from,	b^r	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	Uh, just usually pretty local in, in nature

sv	my only major objection is that, uh, I don't think American media spends enough, uh, attention on, on our closest neighbors like Mexico and Canada.	aa	That, that's true, you know.

b	Yeah.	sd	Uh, whereas if you pick up a, a European paper, you know, uh, it, all the surrounding countries, Soviet Union, and everything has, uh, major news, uh, articles in them.

sd	I mean the most they'll give it is the back of the A section.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and we're pretty, uh, limited in our understanding of, of leaders up in Canada or Mexico.

aa	definitely.	sv	You just don't know what's going on.

b	Yeah.	sd	every once in awhile, I have to travel overseas

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you get some, like thirty minute summaries of, of news events.

b	Right.	sv	Uh, but that's a good point about, about the neighboring countries.

sd	There's some serious talk about whether there's actually going to be a, a Canada, you know, in the next five years. You know, because of the problems with Quebec	b	Yeah.

sd	and n , I had never heard any of that before.	b^r	Yeah,

ny	Uh huh.	sv	Or, or, i , that's just something, uh, I'd say ninety percent of the people here would never have heard of

b^r	right.	sd	I didn't see a thing about it.

b	Oh, yeah.	sd	Uh, I, it surprised me.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You'd think it would carry mostly religious

sd	I used to.	b	Oh well,

sv	I think everybody took piano lessons	sv	Everybody,

qy	Do you?	ny	Yes,

sd	and I played it for maybe three months .	sd	But, then, again, I was also in, uh, the marching band.

ba	Wow .	sd	Uh, you know, whatever

b	All right .	sd	I en , I enjoy the music,

b	Yeah.	sv	It always sounds like,

aa	True .	qw	So, how long did you play?

sd	Only for about three months.	b^m	Three months.

sd	and we got pretty bored quick .	sd	I was going to say, y , y , you got as far as the, uh, chop sticks, huh.

sd	Um, well, I could play, uh, the wood chuck song.	b^m	Oh, the wood chuck song .

sd	And I still can to this date.	sd(^q)	And your mother's saying, and although, the money that we spent for those piano lessons this is all we got was the wood chuck song .

sd	and for three months .	ba	Oh, bless your heart.

sd^e	any time I got bored .	bk	Oh, okay,

nn	No.	b^m	No.

sv	but I think everybody can.	bk	Okay.

b	Yeah.	sd	I played chic , uh, concertos and other stuff

b	Yeah.	sd	but I enjoy it, though.

qy	Do you sing at choir at your church?	ny	Yes,

b	Yeah.	ny	Yes,

sd	So, I never tried again.	sd	Well, I sing in the choir,

b	Yeah,	sv	That's pretty good.

sd	and that's about when I quit.	sd	I actually went to the University of Texas at one time thinking that I would, c , be a musician.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	But after one semester of that, I said n , no, no,

b	Yeah.	sd	And besides that I kind of learned I wasn't really that good .

b	Yeah.	sd	Course, my mom thought I was,

sv	parents always do.	b	Oh, yeah,

sv	They're nice that way.	aa	Yes.

qy^d	so you listen to kind of church music, gospel?	nn	No,

bh	Oh, yeah?	ny	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	sd	So I listen to the radio,

b	Oh, yeah.	sd	I like people like Neil Diamond and all, all the folks that you're not supposed to like,

bf	the jeezer music as I call it.	b^m	Oh, the jeezer music.

aa	Yeah.	b	Oh, okay,

sd	and that's his station, so I call it the jeezer music.	b	Okay,

sd	Well, I listen to like ninety seven point one, you know, more,	qw	What d , what is that?

sd	kind of pop, you know, rock.	b^m	Rock.

aa	Yeah.	bf	Hard rock?

ar	Well, not hard .	qy^d	Not hard rock.

br	Huh?	qy	Is that the eagle?

ny	Yeah.	bk	Okay,

sv	It's not too hard,	aa	That's not too hard.

sv	But it's not enough to put you to sleep .	aa	True,

sv	Which some of the songs on K V I L can.	sd	Well, course, see, I listen to K V I L for the contests.

qy^d	got the bumper sticker, too?	ny	Oh, yes,

^2	Someday.	aa	Yeah .

fc	Okay.	fc	I appreciate it.

fc	Okay.	fc	Catch you later.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qy	You interested in woodworking?	ny	Yeah.

qw	What kind of	sd	It's, It's, it's, plywood, face, I guess.

qy^2	pine?	sd	But I cut it out in the shape of a crayon box

qy^d	I guess he's young.	ny	yes .

sv	he'll be delighted.	aa	yeah.

qr	or do you have powered, you know,	ny	yeah.

sd	Our local schools have adult education in the evening	b	Oh.

sd	I'm an artist.	b	okay.

sd	and, you know, if I touch it, it turns into something us , usually.	ba	That's great.

o@	* slash error well actually, I'm very, you know, / * slash error	qw	what type of art do you focus on?

sd	once I get you know, really pretty good at something, I want to try something else .	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	you made it.	ba	That's great!

sd(^q)	so let's do something else.	aa	Right.

sd	I'm signed up for a class in pottery making because I've never tried that yet	qw	So you have a M F A in what division of art?

sd	and it's in art education.	bk	okay.

sd	but jobs being what they are, I substitute teach	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know how long that's going to last .	b^r	yeah.

sd	but I've been real interested in some of those cute country kind of things.	b@	* slash error

sd	and I make it.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	I love to cook.	ba	that's great.

sd	And I saw a silver necklace that had these little teeny weeny silver spatulas and, and knife and a fork and all kinds of stuff	b@	* slash error

sd	and you get the tools you don't feel like buying.	b@	Yeah. / * slash error

sd	but it didn't,	b	yeah.

sd	but if it cost me twenty dollars, you know,	^2	And your time,

sd	It was a solid watermelon with a wedge cut out of it.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That's neat.

sd	and I got two six foot inch thick boards turned into a watermelon.	ny	Yes.

sd	and cutting that wedge out was no joke .	ba	I'm sure.

sd	I had a, I did it through Adult Ed again.	qy^d	A band saw?

sd^r	I did it through Adult Ed again.	b	Uh huh.

^q	that was the plan here .	b	Right.

sd	So we did get the wedge cut out by building some kind of a cradle for it.	^2	A cradle for it.

sd	but there's no coping saw big enough for a fourteen inch wide watermelon that	b	Right,

^q	it's not going to happen.	b	Yeah.

sd	by getting the other one out without the slice now flying in your face was something you had to think about .	b	Right.

ng	I'd say it's about an eighth.	sd	Well, I'm envisioning, a watermelon like a log

sd	And then, just recently, after we were married, I baby sat for a dentist while she worked.	b	Yeah.

qy	Is it? {Very faint}.	sd	But, uh, I've heard people that I work with talk about, you know, child care.

sd	The expense.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Which is understandable.

sd	and that wasn't counting food or gas or anything.	ba	Oh, no.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	It was easy, you know, go over to some, uh,

ba	Oh, wow.	sv	it was great.

ba	Wow.	sd	that was a long time ago

b	Yeah.	h	But I don't know.

sv	I think people that treat their baby sitters like that get a lot better baby sitters.	aa	Oh, yeah.

sd	And I quit , you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I was just like but I'm wasting my time.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	but I thought ...	^2	She does take up,

aa^r	Yeah,	sv	They're very demanding .

^q	But I don't want to make her eat something she doesn't want to eat .	fe	Oh, shoot.

^2	Eat this or .	aa	That's right.

sv	So, I can see the concerns on what different people want.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, you know, if I was setting up a daycare, there would be so many needs you would have to customize your service to.	b	Yeah.

sv	Cause some parents won't put up anything. Where others would.	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And just have like t , at the most, like ten kids.

ar	No.	sv	Instead of trying actually to set up a daycare where you don't know the people coming in and ...

sv	There's too many lawsuits.	b	Yeah.

sv	I just, I think it's a bigger risk than ...	bf	More than what it's worth?

aa	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sv	and they just want to sue you.	b	Yeah.

b	Oh, yeah.	sv	you can't watch that many little kids getting into things at one time .

sv	That's impossible.	sv	You know, you never know what they're going to get into.

sd	And then she would like to turn in half of the parents that drop their kids off because of the condition the kids are in, you know.	ba	Oh, that's horrible.

sd	Like they'll be in the same clothes they were the day before, the same diaper.	b	Huh.

sv	I mean, you just don't know.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	I just, I couldn't do it I don't think.

h	I don't know.	b	Yeah.

sd	Just not knowing.	b	Yeah,

sv	and, uh, there's crime in, uh, young people because they don't have ro , role models	b	Yeah.

qo	What do you think?	qw^h	What about,

b	Uh huh.	sv	because that's the lowest thing for themselves,

b	Yeah.	sv	But I also blame some of it on parents

b	Okay.	sv	because parents aren't parents.

b	Yeah.	sd	Because I remember even when I was growing up,

b	Okay.	sd	I remember when I was growing up,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I knew that I would get in more trouble from my mother than from from anybody else.

^2	From anybody else.	sv	And I think that's the basic, is they have no morals any more,

b	Yeah.	sv	so they don't care.

aa	I think I can agree with that too.	sd	But now, as far as what they can do about it, I don't know.

sd	I don't know how you do that.	sv	I guess if you gave the, gave them jobs,

sd	Or both of them.	sv	That would work to a point,

sd	Now, to put the blame on the parent.	sv	Well, that'd work to a point because some kids are just bad anyway.

b	Yeah.	sv	so I think it depends on how much trouble that kid has been in, you know.

b^r	Yeah.	sv	Because a, a, a child can get into anything regar ,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	I don't care how good you, they are.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	but now if this is a repeated thing,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	Because that means she's still not doing what she's supposed to do.

b	Yeah.	qy^d	I don't know if you seen this.

b	Um.	sd	it was a little, it was a little gang of them stealing cars, you know,

b	I understand.	sd	And then when they caught him, you know, his mother sitting there,

b	Yeah.	sv	But see, by that, I think sometimes it's a little late.

b^r	Yeah.	sv	but I'm sure there's something can be done.

qy^d	Anything do any about adult crime.	ny	Yeah,

sv	Well, for one, a major problem with that is the jails are overcrowded.	sv	Well, they should start with, the,

b	Um.	sv	You ought to take all them little misdemeanor people

b	Yeah.	ad	let them go,

b^r	Yeah.	ad	you know, give them a fine, whatever,

sv	I mean seriously,	ad	Put them fools in there,

sv	they ought to put those people to work.	sd	I call them all fools, idiots, whatever.

b	Yeah.	ad	Little rock stars, put all them in there.

b	Um.	ad	You know, the murderers, the drug dealers, the user, put them all in

b	Yeah.	ad	and let all the normal people go

b^r	Yeah.	qy^g	if you write a bad check, you go to jail, right.

ny	Yeah.	ad	Let them people go.

nd	Well.	sd	Not let them go and get out of it.

sv	they, you still have to punish them.	ad	Let them go and pay their crime or their time doing something else you know, like cleaning up the city or however they do their community time, you know, whatever that is .

b^r	Yeah,	sv	But pu , don't put them in jail because they're not hardened criminals.

sv	whereas some of them are so far gone that they can't do anything good for society.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that's true.	sd	Now how they going to fix it, I don't know.

sv	I don't think so either.	sv	Because the economy is down, people, you know, the, the, the low man on the pole is getting more of the, I guess, the bulk of it.

b	Yeah.	sv	And he's got to work extra hard just to make ends meet.

sv	And they keep taking more money from us	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they don't have any incentive to work if we're just going to take fifty percent of it.	b	Yeah.

sd	then they don't have to pay taxes on it .	aa	That's it.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, you know, they, I, I, I know that's bad, but, you know, just like Texas now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They could have had a lottery.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	Because, you know, they take,

b	Um.	sd	Because we're paying for Social Security they using now.

b	Yeah.	qw	Who's going to pay for mine?

sd	I'm not counting on it.	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	that's what I'm saying,

b	Um.	sv	Crime is going to go up as long as the economy stays down.

b	Yeah.	sv	And it's going to get worse.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	That's just like last night they killed them people in that store.

sd	I'm in Raleigh, North Carolina.	bk	Oh .

qw	Well, where are you from?	sd	I'm in Dallas.

bk	Okay.	sd	But last night, they killed, uh, uh, four people in a chain food.

ba	Oh, man.	sd	And killed them,

b	Uh huh.	sd	One was a store and one was like a, a fast food place,

b	Yeah.	sd	Anyway, they raped the women, beat them all up, including the women,

ba	Ow.	qw	Why was, you know, why

^2	Why did they do in the freezer?	qw	you know, why didn't they just,

b	Yeah.	sv	They didn't have to kill them or rape them, or anything.

sd	I mean, not not too often real bad ones,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't think there's anywhere where there isn't going to be crimes.	sv	Well, I think, if it's,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and everybody knows everybody

b	Yeah.	sv	it's harder to come in there and do something.

b^r	Yeah.	sv	and, and, and see that's another thing.

b	Yeah.	sv	There's nobody is next door to you,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	because I moved out some apartments before because they were loaded with drug dealers.

b	Um.	sd	and what the manager, the manager won't even do anything.

sv	He's probably a drug dealer himself .	b	Uh huh.

sv	You never know.	aa	You don't.

ba	Wow.	sd	and this is like across the street.

b	Um.	sd	and there across the street one of the apartments blew up because they were having that, making that, um, crack stuff

b^r	Um.	sd	and then, the other time I saw the cops break down somebody's apartment around the corner.

bf	Time to go.	aa	That's it,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, now I live in like a fam , a neighborhood in a town house,

sv	It's pretty nice.	sv	I don't know how they can live, a neighborhood or apartment complex.

b	Yeah.	sv	Or rent to them and evict them because they drug dealers.

b	Yeah.	^q	If you deal drugs, you can't live here.

sv	Most of them are too scared to do anything about it.	aa	Uh huh.

fc	Well listen, I got to go.	fc	All righty.

fc	Nice talking to you.	ft	And I thank you.

fc	All right.	fc	Bye bye.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You just wear, uh,

b	Oh, I see.	sd	And, uh, so, I get to wear just, uh, how shall I say it, uh, walking shoes as opposed to dress shoes and well walking, how shall I say it, kind of like Avia, uh, walking shoes, uh,

sv	Well, that's nice comfortable stuff.	aa	Yes.

ba	Wow.	sd	And, uh, just, uh, reasonable looking, how shall I say it, uh, sports clothes or some guys wear, some people even wear Levis.

sv	That's nice.	qy^g	Now, being from Philadelphia, I don't expect your dress code to be quite that relaxed, right?

ng	so my dress code is very, very .	bk	Oh, okay.

sd	But over the summers I've had a job, internships with the newspaper.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but you still have to have a professional imagine kind of thing. To go out to meet people and interview people and stuff like that	b	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it, it was very interesting,

qy^d	That must be nice atmosphere then.	na	Well, it has been.

b	Oh.	sd	so anyway I wore this suit

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it, and I, I was almost converted because, uh, the effect of that suit on the way people res , reacted and responded to me as opposed to the,

ba	Wow.	sd	So people, uh, how shall I say it, made a, made much more effort to notice you, acknowledge your presence, say hello and, uh, things like that,

sv	It's like a mini, little study there .	b	Yeah.

ba	That's really interesting.	sv	And so this dress for success thing, I think is, uh,

ba	That's interesting.	sd	Doesn't mean they have to be, uh,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but, uh, a little dressing a little bit above the standard, I think, would, uh, pay off

ba^r	that's neat .	h	And, uh, I, I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Not hot like, uh,

b	Oh.	sd	And I know that, uh, you know, it can be freezing cold in the wintertime, and hot and, uh, sticky in the summertime.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We don't have that much.

qy^d	That's good for the clothes budget, I would imagine.	ny	Yes,

aa	Yes .	sd	And, the interesting scale that they assigned it, the one being a banned and ten being no regulations or totally free .

b	Right.	sd	but there still, the technology exists to check it if they want.

b	Right.	sd	I have shot a variety of guns for a number of years,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't even keep the gun in our house,

b	Right.	sd	so I don't have that problem,

sd	two or three.	b	Uh huh.

sd	because of, we had a neighbor child that was killed by another child because they had a gun in the house	ba@	Uh huh. Boy.

sd	it destroyed two families in just that instant	b	Right.

sd	I don't know if you're in the big city,	sd	Dallas.

br^m	Dallas?	ny	Uh huh.

sv	That's a big city .	b	Yeah.

sd	and he's going to, you know, try to shoot first.	b	Right.

sd	if he's got a knife or whatever that can throw it at you,	b	Right.

sd	I still won't have a gun in the house because he said it's really , playing Russian Roulette if you do .	b	Yeah.

aa^r	That's right.	sv	you know, the very few of those burglaries actually occur in such a way that you knew the guy was coming,

b	Right.	sv	and had time to do anything about it.

aa	That's right.	sd	And, I don't have that problem,

b	Right.	sv	And you have a earn a right,

aa	That's right.	sd	you know, there's all sorts of arguments there

aa	I know .	sd	but, I don't even want to worry about what the original intent was,

b	No.	sd	they didn't have this problem back then .

aa	That, That's, that's right,	sv	So, we change our rights with our social status.

aa^r	that's right.	sd	They're man given rights

b	Right.	sd	the people that hide behind that, I don't worry about.

sd	They, you know, they say there should be no ban,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I can't see why any, o , on the street citizen should be able to be allowed to have a machine gun.	b	Right.

sd	I don't know too many people that use a machine gun to go sport hunting either .	b	Right.

sv	That, to me, would not be an unreasonable thing.	b^r	Right.

sd	course the argument with the people in the gun club, is that, well the people that are going to get guns are the ones that are going to steal them anyway.	b^r	Right.

sv	Course, some of them do.	b	Yeah.

sv	So it, it is a hard question .	bf	Tends to, tends to strap only the legitimate people.

aa	oh, yeah.	sv	it's very difficult to, legislate, crooks or however you want to word it

aa	That's right.	sv	well, this may be a never ending topic.

fc	well thanks for talking.	fc	Okay, bye.

sv	and I think that comes about from their being a definite factor in the job market now.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	and, I was in one of those safe occupations.	b	Yes.

sd	I was a school teacher,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we had one child when I taught for my two year career.	b	Uh huh .

sd	and I stayed home with those children, and raised those children	b	Yes.

sd	and now that my husband has retired, I am back substitute teaching,	b^r	Yes.

sv	and some days you wonder why you're even bothering,	b	Right .

sv	because your fighting for your life.	b	yeah.

sv	I think they're going in by choice.	aa	Oh, I think so.

sv	And I think too many of the young professional wives in our small town of five thousand, uh, are not letting that happen.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They are very aggressive.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	They're, uh, they almost have what I would call a killer e , killer bee instinct.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, and I th , I think they lose a lot by what I call neutering their husbands.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they had, they used to look down on women that were home,

b	Oh, sure .	sd	and I used to be infuriated,

b	Uh huh.	sd	because they really had no idea what was involved once I got home.

b	Huh.	sv	And, there's a lot of truth to that

b	Uh huh.	^q	I wish I was the one,

sv	and the only value I see coming out of, this is that children now in, in a two parent home, they now actually have two parents,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I have a daughter, who's a beautician.	b	Right.

sd	And I see, my sons in law cooking and, dropping children off at the sitter and, picking children up from school and, and having a much better relationship with their children, than my husband ever did	b	Uh huh.

sd	because he, left home at five thirty in the morning,	sv	That's true.

sd	and he got home at six fifteen.	b	Yes.

sd	and he was asleep in his chair because he was exhausted.	b	Right.

sv	and I think, that's an advantage.	^2	And they enjoy it.

b	Uh huh.	aa	you're right.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	and I think that is healthy because ch ,

sv	And I think it's a, a wonderful advantage for the young, for the, for the, particularly for the males, for the little boys to have, a relationship with their father,	aa	Right.

sv	and, and I don't, think you, we get into so much of the mother dominating figure, if, if the father has more input there.	aa	Yes.

sd	And we just recently finished a long drive through the west, a little over five thousand miles,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I sat at a counter to have a cup of coffee that happened to be for truck drivers only.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and she w , has just, had just driven a load of meat from Minneapolis to some place in Arizona,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and she had been driving, a truck for seven years.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, why would a woman choose that rough and tumble life style when,	b	Yeah.

sd	but after she talks to her husband about how she ought to vote.	ba	Oh, boy .

sd	Now it probably doesn't work that way in our household because I have strong opinions about things, too,	b	Yeah.

sd	I like my luggage, carried and, my door opened,	h	Well,

sv	and I think that's sad.	aa	well, that, that's true.

sd	He was raised in the south,	b	um,

sv	I think that's a little war condition, .	b	Oh, oh, yeah.

b	Huh.	sd	And their meal is served

aa	Sure.	sv	And I think, I think this reaction comes more out of fear.

b	Uh huh.	sd	He comes from a culture where women are, stay at home and do everything,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	um, and yet, um, he's the type that he is willing to have to take on more responsibility, um, if that meant, , {door} you know, for me to be able to, uh, uh, advance or go back to work or whatever.

b	Uh huh.	t3	{talking to someone in background}, they're downstairs Aaron, {resumes talking to A}

b^r	Huh.	sd	I refused to work more than thirty.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I was part time

b	Huh.	sv	but I think you have to put in perspective, that, you know, when the kids came home from school, I wanted to be here.

sd	I'm not altogether sure that that's my best topic.	sv	I thought it was kind of a strange topic about corruption in the government and how many people are self serving.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, you I, I think people tend to think that the government is not corrupt . And that people aren't self serving.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	I mean that's what I would like to think.

sv	I, I think that the last, part of that question was particularly interesting, about, or how much unethical behavior can be made illegal because it seems to me that when , government or public service of any kind degenerates so much that you have to have so many explicit ethical codes parallel to the legal codes that, we're focusing on the wrong thing.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Maybe so many things have become public with the media over the past, you know, ten to twenty years that, it becomes more evident.	b	Right .

sv	Perhaps things that we didn't think of before and just concentrated on the lawmaking or the results that would be seen in public works or bills that are passed or, you know, et cetera like that	b	Uh huh.

sv	and we were just not exposed to the personal lives of these persons.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	And I couldn't help thinking when that last quest , it was a funny question when that last part of the question came about how many things can we, actually put a legal code on how much, should it be our, prerogative to see into the private lives of these people. You know.	b^r	Uh huh.

aa	That's right.	sv	And sometimes, you know, I don't even know how much of a difference it really makes, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, I guess in some cases, sure we care about what they did in the past

b	Uh huh.	h	but, sometimes, I don't know

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	I think it gets in the way of the better judgment.

sv	I, I agree with that and also that if the results that they're putting out and what they actually seem to be accomplishing by legitimate means is what's, you know, going to the public then they'll pay for their private life in their own private conscience.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, you kn , when it becomes public, though, it becomes scandalous.	b	Uh huh.

sv	things that you don't know do, do not worm their way around and influence other people or perhaps lead other people astray.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, as soon as things do get public there is that terrible concern.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, sometimes I ask myself, what are, people doing that are in the media when somebody, you know, comes up to office,	b	Uh huh.

sv	it seems that one of the first thing that's done is to dig up any kind of a thing they can on them and get it all over the headlines.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	It's a very low way of living.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, and, and as far as, you know, myself having any particular personal, knowledge or insight into politics or politicians, I'm not terribly involved in it.	b	Uh huh .

sd	Just in a very cursory way.	b	Right.

sd	but, I, i , it just is not one of the things that I have, placed, a lot of my particular time and effort into,	b	Yeah.

sd	so, I always feel very outside this kind of an issue.	b	Uh huh.

b	right.	sd	but I don't really play an active role in any kind of politics .

sv	and they certainly do get inside information	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, of course, the better you know a person that might be affiliated with that kind of thing, the more you can trust their judgment and their insight.	b	Right.

sd	I just kind of read and kind of be aware	b	Yeah.

sd	and then, I don't like to make a whole lot of, judgment myself unless things are so absolutely out of whack that,	b^r	Yeah.

sd	I guess the next car I'll be looking for is a kind of a plain old four door .	qw	What kind of a car do you have now?

sd	and then, uh, our, our newer car is a, uh, a Corsica.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we'll probably be looking for something about that, uh, that same style.	b	Yeah.

sd	That same kind of four door, hard top style.	qy	You got kids?

sd^e	but we're planning for it.	bk	Okay.

sd	but it's in pretty good sh , in really good shape.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we've been really pleased with Oldsmobiles.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	So that's probably where the first place we'd look.	b	Huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Uh, mostly because my wife's stepfather works at a Ford dealership .

ba	That'll do it.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	and we've got a minivan,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that's great.

ba	Oh, geez.	sd	And, uh, and this Escort took it all.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I, I, I bought a used, uh, Dodge Aries, which has been okay.

bh	Really?	sd	I, I mean I've haven't had it that long.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it, it al , it's an eighty five Aries,

ba	Oh, geez.	sd	And I just, you know, I just drive it to work.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, uh, it doesn't get much of, uh,

b^r	yeah.	sv	and it's a four door which is nice,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it's still a little cramped.

bf	Sounds like you, you need at least like a Taurus size, or something like that.	aa	Yeah,

sd	That I guess it's the sports version of the Taurus?	bh	Oh, really?

sd	and, uh, and a lot of those.	ba	Ooh.

sd	And it comes with a bigger engine and the things like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	You're not going to see too many, uh, you know, green ones or blue ones or anything like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	They, they put them in sporty colors I guess.	b	Yeah.

sv(^q)	and then you go, What?	b	Right.

qh	What would I, besides tooling around and looking really cool and having a lot of fun, what would I really do with this car?	b^r	Right,

sd	I had an old car that I bought just to get to, to my j , my first job.	b	Yeah.

sd	And when I got there, the first thing I did was trade it in on a Spitfire.	b	Oh.

sd	And I, I knew that was going to be the only time I could afford a two seater, uh, sports car.	b	Yeah.

sd	I bought a set of stereo speakers	b	Yeah.

sd	And it was winter, so I was in like this coat with the top down,	ba	Oh, no!

sd	and the speaker in the passenger seat.	b	Yeah .

sv	And da , you kind of outgrow that real quick when it's your only car.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	They'd, they'd buy themselves a sporty car because it was their last.

bh	Oh, really?	sd	And, uh, because I got a good deal on it

b	Yeah.	sd	and, uh, that was a great little car.

sv	Boy, that's a good deal.	sd	And, uh, in fact I married one of those people .

sd	Well, I'll have to remember that if I ever get in that situation again .	sd	And it worked.

sv	she really doesn't want to learn I guess, the, uh, the standard shift.	b	Yeah,

sd	We got one of these things from Lee Iacocca that said, you know, I'll give you a fifty dollar savings bond if you'll test drive a car.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	But it was one of those things where we just went to a big parking lot	b^r	Yeah .

sd	it was a Le Baron with everything on it,	ba	Wow!

sv	It was the craziest thing I ever saw.	ba	That's weird!

sv	And, and, and that's probably why they were trying to sell them, I guess.	b	Huh.

sd	She did pretty well after a while.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, uh, it's just kind of hard to learn, I guess.	sd	I mean, she'd always driven standard transmission.

b	Uh huh.	sd	in fact all our earlier cars were a standard transmission.

b	Um, okay.	sd	this Dodge Aries is the first car we've ever gotten that had anything.

ba	Oh, geez.	sv	You know, it's like, it's like a luxury car except that it's the Dodge Aries , you know.

sd	Well, I guess that's, I guess that's about all I've got to say, about cars .	sv	the, the thing about this, uh, th ,

b	Uh huh.	sv	We thought that was a luxury car when we bought it.

bf	because it's so big.	aa	Yeah.

b	Oh, yeah.	sd	We never had it, you know,

b^r	sure.	sd	And, uh, of course this has, this that had s , speakers that you can control from the back seat.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you can change the channels on the, on the radio from the back seat too .

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And put s , speaker phones in it.

sv	but I bet on the next time you buy a car, that's going to be mandatory.	aa	Right.

sv	You've got to have that now.	aa	That's right.

sv	and you got to have it.	sd	And you've got to pay for it too.

aa	That's true too.	sv	And I bet, and I bet it costs twice as much as, as when I bought mine .

fc	you have a good evening.	ft	Thanks a lot.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye

o	Night,	fp	Fine,

sd	I understand we're supposed to talk about spaceflight.	aa	Yes.

sd	I hope you know more about it than I do.	sd	well , I just got through reading, SPACE by, James Michener.

qy	is that right?	sv	And so that, helped out a little bit I think.

sv	I was so upset with TEXAS that I haven't gotten into any more of his books because I thought it was just horrible.	aa	Well, he tends to go into a lot of detail sometimes.

sv	so I wasn't sure how credible he was.	qy	is that right?

qo	But anyway, what do you think we've gained from the spaceflights?	^h	Well , I'm not sure to be honest with you,

sv	Ego trip.	sv	it was nice to go there,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I happen to live not too far away from,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, that's been kind of a real negative feeling here

b	Right.	sv	sure it was, you know, very unfortunate thing that occurred there

qw	Where do you live?	sd	we live in, Utah.

qy	am I talking to Utah right now?	ny	Uh huh.

ba	great.	b	Yeah.

sd	Because I'm in Dallas.	b	Oh.

qy^d	Carolyn Rash?	br	Pardon me?

qy	Is her name Rash, Carolyn Rash?	nn^e	No, my last name is Skidmore.

b	I see.	sd	And her husband's name is, his last name is Weight.

sd	I hadn't heard that.	sd	Well, they were.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, they're as long as a football field practically and about twelve foot in diameter

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and there is a lot of thrust to get that much weight up in the air.

b	yeah.	sv	I,

aa	I would think so, too .	sd	the thing that he went into quite a bit of detail about how much of a problem it is to re enter the Earth's atmosphere.

qy^g	You never think about that do you?	ny	Yeah.

sv	I would think it would be harder to get up than it would be getting back down.	b	Yeah .

b	Uh huh.	sd	and if they come into it at a different angle there is so much friction that it burns them up.

sv	I'm sure you've seen more of them than I have,	b	Oh.

sd	but you could see the scorch on them, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but you could see how hot it got because it was still the scorch on them which was quite interesting.	b	Yeah,

b	yeah.	sd	I've seen more of the motors that they produced out there.

sd	Well, these were the ones that John Glenn went up in you know, and the old, old ones.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the little bell type things.	sd	People have commented how, they were surprised at how small they were.

sd	they really were,	qy^d	Looked pretty confining,

sv	and, yeah, I mean, you actually put it on , you know.	qy	Is that right?

qy	but did he go into that in the book?	ng	Not really. ,

sv	I guess that's just to sell us on it.	sd	One thing's,

b	yeah.	sd	It's perfectly round.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But I'm not sure you have to go to outer space to achieve that zero gravity.

aa	Well, that's true	b	Yeah.

sv	Because I think those satellites, you know, or not satellites, but the spaceflights could really spy	b	Uh huh.

sv	and with, with Russia's demise, I didn't know if we should continue to support it at the current level.	aa	Yes.

b	Yeah.	sd	I appreciate having the satellites.

sd^r	I don't either.	sv	but I I know that's certainly helped a lot in that regard.

sd	A, Golden Retriever.	sd	that's one of my favorite kinds of dogs.

bh	Is it really?	qw	How long have you had it?

sd	let's see, he just had his fourth birthday.	b^m	Fourth birthday.

sd	we like him.	qy	Does he shed a lot?

sv	He'd probably look pretty funny if we did that.	qw	How much does he weigh now?

sd	and he's up to ninety four now.	b	Oh.

sd	He's kind of stocky, shorter and stockier.	qy	Is he good with family?

sd	We treat him like our kid right now so he's spoiled rotten.	b	Yeah,

sv	Get away with that a little bit more with pets than you can with kids .	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about you?	sd	Well, we have a cat who's also about four years old.

b	Oh.	sd	And he's our spoiled child right now, too .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he also sheds a lot.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, we hope to get a Golden Retriever someday.

qy	have you ever had a Retriever before?	nn	No,

sv	They love to play with kids.	qy	is your dog an inside and outdoors?

sd	and he doesn't like it if we tie him outside.	bh	really?

sd	he'll just bark and bark and bark.	qy	when he gets outside, does he run away and then eventually come back?

sd	and, she is good friends with my dog.	bh	yeah?

sd	So he's pretty good about taking to commands and and things.	qr	Did you bring him to a doggy obedience school or just train him on your own

sd	and, this is the first dog I've had all my own as an adult.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I never really to hit him or anything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Just, you know firm tone of voice and those sorts of things.	bh	Really?

sd	and those horrible collars that they put on them with invisible fencing,	br	Invisible what?

qy	have you heard of that?	nn	No,

sd	it's a system you can put in your yard where you bury these little, transducers or emitters in your yard at the perimeter	b	Oh.

sd	and if they get too close to that perimeter, it it zaps them.	b^r	Oh.

b	Yeah .	sd	I'd be afraid to walk around if I was that dog .

sd	He said it was a good jolt.	bh	really?

sv	If you put enough patience into,	aa	Yeah,

qr	is your cat an indoor cat or an outdoor cat?	ny	Yeah

sd	Somebody just told me that	b	Yeah.

qy^d	because of the leukemia?	ny	Yeah,

bf	Quite a difference.	aa	Yeah.

qw	what kind of climate do you have?	sd	Well, we just moved recently

sd	the last development I know of was the military and financial assistance Columbia for the, for the drug, uh, control.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, the source of supply.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	but the source of supply is there.	aa	That's true.

sd	I've been to, uh, Peru several times.	b	Uh huh.

sv*	but there is not exactly a lot of, uh, physical responsibility there. / * listen; probably 'fiscal' not 'physical'	aa	No.

sv	but they need to learn how to stand on their own, own two feet also.	aa	I agree.

aa	I know,	^2	Are extremely poor.

sv	but until you've seen some of those, uh, native, Latin Americans come down from the hills, you can't imagine what poor is.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, uh, the worst scene I've ever had I think was, uh, someone eating out of, out of a garbage can on the streets in Lima, Peru.	bf	And, and just very happy to get that.

aa^r	Yes.	sd	I have a brother who spent two years in Bolivia.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And this is very much his, you know, reaction that the rich are so rich and the poor are so poor.

sv	the, the graft and the, uh, payoffs down there are , are an accepted way	b	Uh huh,

sd(^q)	and he pot, patted his pocket and said fifteen percent,	ba	Oh, gosh.

sd(^q)	And the Ambassador potted, patted his pocket and said one hundred percent	b	Yep .

sv	it's a sad story	o	Intentions, intentions .

sv	but it, uh, it is a problem.	aa	I know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And seventeen children, filtered through into, into America through Guatamala, through Mexico, through Honduras,

b	Um.	sd	you know, two here, three there, one here, you know, this kind of thing until,

b	Yeah.	sd	and now, uh, couple of the older ones stayed or went back,

sd	Well, the oth , the other instance I think of their inability to, to handle things, the cholera, and hepatitis epidemics now in, in Latin America.	aa	Yes.

sv	And it shows the, the unpreparedness for such, such a problem.	aa^r	Yes.

sd	And they're very rich in gold and silver, and very rich in, in, uh, natural resources such as the fish and, uh timber, and, and copper and all types of, uh, resources	b	Uh huh,

sv	they don't have the ability to develop it.	bf	The technology.

aa	Right.	b	Well,

aa	You're you're exactly right.	sv	It's kind of a catch twenty two.

sd	because they offer assistance, then don't get repaid.	b	Yeah,

sv	Of course it's a very volatile government, uh, situation, too.	b	Well,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, that's really, uh, kind of a far fetched idea,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it's like in any sibling rivalry

sv	And it would save the U S money in in the long run in how much they're trying to do,	^2	In the long run.

aa	True.	qy	Course, then could, you know, at, at some point, could you ever convince someone to turn around and grow something that was productive for humankind.

sv	And, I, I think finding an alternate to that would be very good.	sv	I mean even their, even their legal crops are things that we don't perceive as being healthy now from a medical standpoint of view, coffee tobacco you know .

^2	Argentine beef,	sd	They're certainly legal,

qy	Well, have we come up with a solution yet, Salina?	nn	No,

sd	Well, one of these days, uh, I hope we'll find some, some way to substitute the good crops for illegal ones.	sv	Well, let's just hope that the powers that be, uh, have time to, a little bit once in a while to, to think in some farther reaching avenues than you and I do here tonight

aa	I agree.	fc	Well, it's been nice chatting with you.

fc	it has.	fc	I appreciate it,

fc	Very good .	fc	It's kind of nice to, to see old friends now, you see.

ft	thank you Salina.	fc	Bye now.

qo	what's your opinion on the, our policy down there?	sv	I don't think we have one.

sv	I didn't know we had one either .	b	Yeah.

sd	military action in Panama is the only thing that comes to my mind right now,	b	Well, uh,

b	Right.	sv	But we just talked a lot.

sv^m	We didn't do anything.	sv	I'm actually surprised at anything in Central America, along with Panama.

sv	that is, that is pretty, uh, risky.	aa	Especially, after our friend Jimmy Carter gave it away anyway.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But I guess they had to finally do something.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	He has a little more d , a little more of a stand on policy than I thought he would.

sv	He takes more risks.	b	Yeah.

aa	He was.	sv	But, but I guess most of the policy that we're using now is, uh, a combination of Reagan and Carter, much as, you know, policy makers.

sv	But, you know, if we, we back up what we s , what we say with actions.	b	Uh, yeah.

sd	I don't know, how long it's going to last.	sv	Of course, we really haven't taken on the drug lords, yet.

b	Yeah.	sv	I'd be interested to see if we do that.

sv	Well, I don't think it's possible because, even though, you know, we're against them, I don't think we can go into another country and do something about the other country's problem.	sv	Well, we did in Panama.

sv	But, to go in and take out the whole drug kingdom would be something totally different because,	sv	It could be an interesting, interesting problem.

b	Right.	sv	I don't know if they could do it or not.

sd^e	I didn't.	sv	I think you need to pick that up and read it.

br	Oh, the drug problem?	ny	Uh huh.

b^m	Uh huh.	sd	Actually, he, he wrote that prior to the, uh, Med , Medellin Cartel being exposed.

b	Yeah.	sv	But I don't think we're going to have much of a choice in e , either Central or South America.

sv	so they're going to have to go to the source.	b	Um, yeah.

b	Right.	sv	We still, there's still t , there's still too many Kennedys and Misinvolves and Udalls all up there.

sv	That's true.	sv	There's too many liberals in control.

b	Yeah.	sv	Of course, these are the same people that also drown blonde, the Chappaquiddic, and stuff like that, you know.

b	Huh.	sv	I guess it's automatic respective.

sv	Depends on how much power you have, and who you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	And these are the people that make the foreign policy

aa	Probably.	sv	Considering the Kennedys made all their money off bootleg whiskey anyway.

b	Huh.	sv	Every time you drink Scotch, you're paying Kennedys.

sd	I don't drink Scotch.	ba	Good.

sv	We, don't want to piss them off and have them over produce	b	Yeah.

o@	and then, because then our economy would be pretty bad. Yeah.	sv	Although we do need to do something about, you know,

sd	you know, the same old cliche.	sv	Well, I think basically, they can't figure out what they want down there.

b	Right.	sv	If you give everybody what they wanted there is a complete democracy, those people wouldn't know how to react because they have no education.

sv	and it'll all, be for nothing.	sv	It's all tradition.

fc	Appreciate talking, to you.	fc	It was very pleasant.

qw	what was that book that you were saying to read, again?	sd	Tom, Clancy.

b^m	A CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER.	aa	Uh huh.

bk	All right.	sv	And I think i , if you read that, I think you'll get a real kick out of it.

ft	Thanks a lot.	bd	All righty.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

sd	and, uh we had a lot before Christmas.	b	Um.

nn^e	but no, uh, no snow.	b^r	Um.

sd	The snows all melted off mount, uh,	sd	Well, I talked to a woman who lived up in the hills, uh, mountains in, uh, Utah, I guess this last weekend

sd	and they're down between thirty eight and, uh, forty inches.	b	Um .

sv	and it's getting quite serious, as far as water next summer.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	But, uh, we have wide variations and have warm weather when most people have cold weather,

b	Um.	sd	We usually have some of our coldest weather toward the, uh, end of January,

sd	and we read in the newspaper, southern part of Texas I guess flooded out,	b	Oh, yeah.

ba	Oh, boy.	sd	They have a, uh, lake cabin

ba	Oh, my gosh.	sd	So we really had a lot of rain.

sd	there's quite a wash that goes down, uh, through Plano	b	Right.

sd	but, uh, that was clear full and up to, up to some of the streets, I guess.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Not more than ten

sv	That's funny that, uh, we can't have it in moderation instead of having either a drought or having too much.	sd	Well, the, uh, there's an old profane expression about Texas weather,

sv	but I imagine if it's that cold in Dallas it,	ar	Well, El Paso won't be cold.

qy^g	It's not a, doesn't get that cold, I guess, huh?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	The, uh, you'll be flying in there?

ny	Yes.	sv	Well, uh, take off is, uh, fun from El Paso because you normally,

b	Yes.	sd	and they're towering above you

sd	I hope we can get, uh, get some.	b	Oh,

sd	and they're not predicting any for the next, uh, week anyway up here	sd	Well, I noticed on the weather map on, uh, cable network that there was supposed to be a storm front moving into California and on down your way,

b	Yeah,	x*	/ * listen; dropped phone is probably comment not utterance, should be in fixed 7 14 97 NC

sd	we got a high pressure system which has been sitting in the air	b	Huh.

sd	and, uh, we broke the record for the amount of fog that we've had, uh, you know	ba	Oh, boy.

sd	and then they seed the clouds, or seed the fog to try to to get the airplanes in and out.	b	Uh huh.

qo	So what do you think about caring for older folks Dale?	sv	Well, I think, uh the elderly is a really neat population to care for.

b	Uh huh.	sv	They've got a lot of special needs

aa	very definitely.	sv	And so you've got a real balance to make there.

b	Uh huh.	qo	What about you?

sd	My mamma is a dialysis patient	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, but she's also a very, very, very independent person and doesn't like having having people, uh, not being able to do things for herself when she wants to	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	He's ninety, I think right on ninety right now	b	Oh really.

sd	My grand mamma died a couple of years ago	b	Oh, okay.

sv	as long as you can have the families take care of the people, I'd like to see them stay at home.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she's, uh, suffering from, uh, well, uh, progressive Alzheimer's Disease

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	so she doesn't remember anybody

b	Right.	sd	and, uh, she remembers things,

b^r	Right.	sd	she was living by herself

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's creating a lot of problems.

qy^d	especially for your uncle I bet.	ny	Oh yes.

qy	Do they have anything like that in Dallas.	^h	In Dallas,

bf	So they are pretty limited.	aa	Right.

sd	another good friend of mine who got her degree in social gerontology wa , well had a job for a while where she went around to to folks and had them, sort of kicked them in the pants to make them take good care of their older relatives. To make sure that they would take care of their responsibilities.	b	Oh really.

sv	I don't think that was mainly with Alzheimer's patients, but just patients, people in general who were not as independent as they use to be.	b	Uh huh,

b	Right.	sv	and I think that's in a way it's more, some, an area where some of the day care, uh, programs have left off

b	Uh huh.	sd	because you really kind of have to be a little bit mobile to be able to do those.

sd	to, uh, get there and to participate in the activities.	b^r	Right.

aa^r	Right.	sd	But if your vision is gone and you have arthritis real badly,

bf	You can't play those things.	aa	Yeah,

sv	But you can sing songs and, uh and tell stories about the old times.	aa	Well, that's true.

qy	was it your grand mother that was having Alzheimer uh, being able to tell old stories.	ny	Uh huh.

sv	You can perhaps get a group of people that aren't too far along with Alzheimer talking about the old times and enjoying it themselves that way.	sd	And they love to recollect.

qy	Do they like to listen to other people recollect though?	ng	My grandmother doesn't .

b	Right.	sv	which is fine, you know,

b^m	Okay .	qy	Have you done this very long?

sd^e	for the last, uh, couple of months.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	qw	Well, what kind of car would you buy?

sd	We just bought, uh, a car, uh, last year and then bought one in eighty nine	bk	Oh, okay.

sd	We've got three cars, of all things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, uh, probably we'll be in at least a midsize, four door sedan.	b	Okay.

sd	Uh, we have a, a Mazda nine twenty nine and a Ford Crown Victoria and a little two seater C R X.	bk	Oh, okay.

sd	we'd, look, always look into, uh, consumer reports to see what kind of, uh, report, or, uh, repair records that the various cars have	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then, of course, we look into the prices.	b	Yeah.

sd	Uh, I traded off an eighty two Oldsmobile for the eighty nine Mazda.	b	Oh, uh huh.

sd	and, uh, we, we've had a good many foreign cars.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We've been extremely pleased with our Mazdas.	bh	Oh, really?

ny	Yeah.	sd	We've always bought American made cars, mostly Oldsmobiles.

sd	and then we had this eighty two.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So we, we really can't complain about Oldsmobiles, really.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	we have a Cutlass, we still have a Cutlass Supreme which is like, a seventy seven.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Then we have a Cutlass Sierra

b^r	Uh huh.	h	but I don't know,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	But, I don't know what we're going to buy.

sd	and that was one of the deciding factors in getting the Mazdas.	b	Oh.

sd	Was British gr , racing green, with real wire wheels and a hard top and a soft top.	ba	Ooh, boy.

sd	And, uh, I drove it mostly.	sv	I'll bet it was hard to part with that.

sd	and we got transferred to Okinawa.	b	Oh.

sd	W , which really tore me up .	b	Oh, yeah.

sd	and we got a little Fiat, uh, and a, and the little, uh, forty horse power Mazda, four door sedan.	b	Oh.

sd	and one is twenty five.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they, they still live at home.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	Actually the, they're both going on their own most of the time.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	So, uh, most of our activities are, you know, just discussion type things about what's going on in the family and what they're doing and that kind of thing.	b^r	Uh huh .

aa	Sure it does.	sd	And, uh, most of the time with a three year old we're trying to, to get him, uh,

b	Oh, yeah.	sd	and trying to supervisor him with that and everything and, uh, playing squirt guns and all that,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, uh, the one year old just kind of follows along and does everything,

qy	is the one year old a boy?	nn	No,

b^m	A girl?	ny	Yeah.

sd	And the, and the younger one is a boy,	b^r	Yeah.

sd	but, of course, uh, Richardson is in the Dallas area.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that, you can't let them grow up the way, the way I grew up, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I could, you know, go and do whatever, pretty much whatever I wanted to do, uh, my whole life.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	Uh, you know, I never, never had to worry about the bad guys being out there.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	that it's, it's really a sad commentary on, uh, you know, a life in general,	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	that, uh, you know that children can't, cannot be allowed to grow up, uh, you know, without really close supervision.	aa	Well, I, I agree with that,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Uh, the only other thing I have noticed though is that, uh, it seems that there's been a lot of or more empha , emphasis at least in what we've been dealing with

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	For, for a three year old it's that, uh,

b	Right.	sv	And, and it seems like it's a lot more than the , they need to know and be able to do than when we are the, when I had to go in t , ki , kindergarten.

b	Yeah.	sv	And it seems like it's more, uh,

sv	A lot more available, of course.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I, I would probably have a hard time getting through school myself.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	or at least it would be a lot harder than it was when I went to school.	b^r	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Educational games like, you know, concentration type games, the matching, things like that.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, uh, he's, he really likes it

b	Huh,	sd	And given, given that knowledge and stuff with it

b	yeah,	sv	and he seems to enjoy it.

b	{Very faint} Oh.	sd	And, uh, of course, the one year old hasn't, hasn't gotten there yet

b	Yeah.	sd	there's a little soccer thing that he's going to do for a week or so

b	Yeah.	sd	because, uh, when he was a baby that we did the swimming too

sv	I can't imagine th , them having as much fun as the parents, had watching them .	aa	I know.

bf	The, the disorganized play really what it was,	aa	Yeah.

sd	I guess he was probably five or six, you know, when he first started playing soccer.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, uh, and that was, that was more fun to watch those boys trying to, trying to kick the ball up and down the field.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	I guess, that was, you know, as important, uh, as much important to the parents as it was to the children that, uh, you know, to get out and watch the kids play,	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	The, the students have a little too much, uh, too much leeway.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	but when they're in school they, they don't have quite, quite as much control, over them as, uh, as what I would liked to have seen.	b	Right,

sv	Uh, uh, I kind of feel like there's, there's too much allowed to go on in at, at school.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	And, uh, you know, it tends to, uh, to encourage students to not be as, you know, to not concentrate as much on the education.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	You know, they're, they're there for a good time.	b	Right.

sv	And, you know, to, to see how little they can get by with.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sv	And, uh, you know, that's just a problem that who knows how that's going to, that's going to come out or anything.

sv	it carried over, into, you know, individual rights	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I can think of lots of things that my roommate does that bother me you know, that I think's like is an invasion of my privacy, stuff like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	But I think it'd be, it is kind of a tough topic.	b^r	Yeah.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	but uh, now I think an invasion of my privacy is when someone calls me on the telephone and says, Mrs Miller, have we got a deal for you.

sd(^q)	You're like, No, you don't, no.	sd(^q)	It's like, how do you know my name,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, those people, they'll call you any time of the day or night with, try to solicit

b	Yeah.	sv	and that's an invasion of my privacy, I think.

sd	now, I mean, now there's, I heard that they were going to start calling on Saturdays or some ,	sd	Oh, they do already.

sd	I would be so mad .	b	Well,

bh	Really.	ny	Uh huh.

b	Huh.	sd	But I do know of a way to get around the computer generated calls.

qw	How?	ad	Don't answer your phone, Hello.

bh	Really?	ny	Uh huh.

sv	I think's like privacy is like, just like, not going through my stuff, like going through, just like my clothes or my drawer, just going through my stuff, basically.	b	Oh, yeah.

sd	That drives me up a wall.	qy	Are you and your roommate a similar size.

sd^e	see, we're not,	qy^d	And she still goes through your clothes?

sd	because she can't wear like my pants	b	Uh huh.

sd	but she'll take all my shirts and my blouses and stuff.	ba	Ooh.

sd	Man, I'm just glad she can't wear my pants or my skirts or my dresses, you know.	b	Oh, yeah.

^q	So I prefer that you just not go in and get them	b	Uh huh.

sv	like that's an invasion of my privacy, I feel like.	aa	Oh, yeah,

sd	when you have your door closed, people just walking in and stuff like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	she would think this is like an invasion of her privacy, is like going through her purse, like if you ever needed money and stuff	b	Oh, yeah.

sd	and she'll get it out or whatever.	b	Yeah.

sd	I was thinking that's the only thing I could really think of that would really be.	sd	My mom doesn't even like for us to go through her cabinets.

b	Really.	sd	I mean, we're all grown,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and now if we go through her cabinets she's like, Well, what are you digging for?

bf(^q)	get out of my cabinets.	sd(^q)	Like, what are you doing?

ba	That's great.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I hate it for people to open up my drawer to my desk

b	Yeah.	sd	because that was, that was where I kept all my stuff,

sd	That would drive, that would, that ,	sd	It would drive, it drove me batty for a while.

bh	Really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and everybody else in my area worked first shift

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and our shifts overlapped

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	so I would come in,

b	Yeah.	^q	Can I have it back soon, maybe.

qy^d	Then you start missing stuff,	ny	Oh, yeah,

sv	and you know how it looks and everything.	b	Oh, yeah.

sd	That would bother me, definitely.	aa	Oh, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	qy	Do you miss your papers sometimes?

ny	yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That's the only thing I can really think about being an invasion of privacy, like something every day, though.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it, it really is an invasion of privacy,

bh	Oh, really?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I've, I've used it once,

ad	Uh, go ahead.	qw^t	What are we supposed to discuss again?

sd	I have a friend who is working with, uh, who works with, uh, travel groups,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and one of the ones that he's w , worked with was professionals who came in for an AIDS, uh, conference in, uh, California.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	He's a translator.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	And they're letting, the information out slowly about how, you know, how big it is.	b	Huh.

sv	I don't know that spending more always gets it.	b	Yeah.

bf	You mean more money for that means less for cancer or,	aa	Yes.

b	Y , yeah.	sv	some difference could be made if you did pour more money in like diabetes research

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	then t , part of it's lack of education.

sd	and you don't know whether it's still also going to the other or if it's a limited pie.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Uh, that's a good point.	sv	And I'm, I am concerned a lot about, uh, I'm concerned about, uh, two things.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm not certain,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But whether or not it would be, uh, our money would be better spent, uh, teaching, you know, working on the drug problems and the, and the sex problems, uh, rather than trying to cure the people that already have it.

sv	and I'm with you that I don't know is, is that really the only way it's being transmitted or was that the easier way to tell us and we're going to find out more.	b	Yeah,

qh	Did they know that all along?	sd	An , and I heard something the other day, this sounds ridiculous, about mosquitoes.

b	Oh	sd	And I don't know that's true or not.

b	Right. .	qw	what does that mean for people that you work with and shake hands with and ,

qw	And how is it really transmitted, et cetera.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think they, they told us what was convenient and felt safe to say, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, but that isn't how it was in Africa.	aa	No.

sd(^q)	This was an international, conference where people are saying, well, but in my country it's, you know, like this.	b	Uh huh.

qh	And does that mean like flus and everything else, there are all these different strains of it?	b	Oh.

sv	Uh, or maybe they understand but,	sv	I think maybe more information should be given out about it.

sv	If you, if I were dying, I'm not sure I would care.	ad	I, I, give me cyanide.

sd	I'll take anything you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean if I'm dying, if I know I'm dying, you can experiment on me.	aa	Exactly.

ad	Go ahead.	qh	And why can't you, why can't the F D A say, you know, i , if these people knowingly consent to be, research monkeys and well, let them,

aa	Exactly.	ad	let them, do it.

sv	and that is the effects of acid rain. Com , coming basically from coal plants in Ohio and Illinois and Indiana.	b	Right.

sd	Every once in a while we have these air inversions, the weather inversions	b	Oh, yes

sd	and we're having problems now because the fish are dying and certain acidic loving plants, uh, or alkaline liking plants are j , not lasting anymore because the soil levels, the p H is changing as this acid rain continues to fall.	b	Right.

sd	it wasn't really pollution, just the steamy weather .	aa	Oh absolutely,

b	Yeah	sv	You just got a lot of, you know, a lot of pollution from those

sd	Uh, just this, it looked like billions of cars massing	aa	Absolutely.

sv	because when I was in Los Angeles for a time, it's all, you know, from Los Angeles to San Diego it's like all city.	b	Right.

sd	but if you have nowhere to do anything.	aa	That's, that's very true.

sd	but, you know, up here we have Kodak	b	Right.

sv	It keeps the neighborhoods happy I guess.	aa	I guess so.

sv	but that's really getting under control now.	b	Right.

sv	Well, sometimes, strangely enough, one vote has made the difference.	aa	Well, I agree with that

sd	because in the local elections is the ones that have the most influence on their day to day lives.	aa	Exactly,

sv	Well, maybe part of the problem is they don't, they think they have enough choices.	sv	Well, that may be true, too.

sd	and then lot of more voters come out to vote than vote in this country.	b	Uh huh,

sv	Well, maybe it's a matter of, you know, voter awareness.	sd	I, I did some work for the, uh, Women's League of, uh, Voters, uh, several years ago

sv	In this country, it seems like it's a continuous ongoing campaign.	aa^m	It's a, it's an ongoing campaign

sv	or they don't have the money.	aa	Exactly,

sv	People aren't going to vote for someone they've never heard of.	aa	Oh, well, I agree with that,

sv	And even debates don't seem to help much.	aa	No,

bf	So we're really voting for the best makeup person and the best handlers.	aa	Exactly.

sv	Well, that was certainly a media event.	sv	he possibly could have, uh, won that election had it not been for some of the , the, uh, the way he presented himself.

sv	Well, he had a classic case of hoof in mouth disease.	aa	Hoof, is, is, I guess the right term for him.

sv	Which is good, you know.	sv	That's good to hear.

qy	Do they have children?	ng	Uh, the one, the most valueless girl doesn't,

ba	Oh, that's wonderful .	sd	But, it, it's kind of weighed on me

ba	Oh, that's neat.	sd(^q)	I'm like, really.

sd	I like to see that.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think it's neat.	b	Oh, yeah.

sv	which the organization can use the help too.	b	Right.

sd	So, I, I wish I could see more of that, you know.	sd	On Sunday we just met, uh, a family,

b	Oh.	sd	And you can tell, it's a family hobby.

sv	those are neat cats, too.	b	Yeah,

sd	but they're all mongrels .	sd	Well that's what we're going to end up getting .

sd	Well they're the ones that need the homes.	b	Oh, yeah.

sd	and I can't turn a hungry cat down.	ba	Oh, I know.

sd	and he was just laying on my lawn just shivering and all,	ba	Oh!

sd	We don't have very many activities	b	No,

qy	Is she spayed.	ny	Yeah.

sv	real maternal .	sd	We're hoping,

sd	of whose, whose top dog, we , top cat, I guess.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they've slapped the dogs around too .	b	Yeah,

sd	Every now and then,	sv	That's true,

sv	As long as you make her feel, uh, like she's still loved and everything,	b	Yeah,

ba	Oh my gosh .	sd	And I think of those,

bf	Three hundred and fifty dollars {whispers}.	aa	Yeah,

sv	house payment .	aa	Right.

sv	That is a lot of money.	aa	Yeah,

sd	if they start going in the front and stuff, I bring them in.	b	Oh.

sd	and too they can catch diseases really easy,	b	Yeah,

sd	just by touching a nose to another cat they can contac , leukemia, feline leukemia,	b^r	Yeah.

sd	We know we try, try real hard to keep them healthy.	sd	Uh, we just bought, uh, acre, a house with an acre to try to, so she'll have some room to walk around, and not off of a busy street.

ba	Oh, how neat.	sd	We're, we're choosing our house for our cat.

qh	I mean, why not.	sd	Oh, them too .

qh^r	why not.	sd	We , because I, she loves, she's one of those that loves th , outside,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, and she doesn't go far

qy^d	You're off of the main road, you said?	ny	Yeah,

sv	and it's, it's just real tough on animals here, you know.	b	Yeah,

sd	it makes me sick,	aa	Oh, I know.

sv	but anyway, we kind of got off the subject of children,	b	Yeah.

sd	except that I consider them my children .	b	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	sd	I, we, we got married a few months ago

^2	In, in her little bridesmaid dress .	aa	Yeah,

sd	Well they have weddings for dogs now and cats	b	Oh.

sd	I've seen it in magazines and stuff where you dress your animals up and take them to a par ,	ba	Oh, my.

sd	I'm not that bonkers.	b	No .

sd	You know, my cats do not wear clothes,	sv	I, I don't think they'd like to.

aa	No.	sd	I put a bow on her one ni , one day

qrr	or do they just all have young kids.	ny	Um, yeah,

qy^g	she needed that, didn't she.	ny	oh yeah.

sv	I think I would be extremely jealous, or would have been, had there been another child in the family.	b	Yeah,

sv	it must be tough.	sd	she's frustrated.

qy^d	We , she, she's the middle one?	ny	Yeah.

sv	so she really doesn't even know what it is to be the only one.	b	Right.

sd	uh, this is the type of, uh, switch where you flip the, the lever, the turn signal on the column	b	Yeah.

sv	which is even worse than them just not getting bright .	aa	Exactly.

sd	it's not in the switch, because it does the same thing with the new switch.	b	Oh.

sd	although it's been removed from the box it's obviously not been really used.	qr	Did you do the diagnosis, or was it just an assumption that that's probably the part that failed?

sd	Uh, I had done what diagnosis I could, primarily by looking at a wiring diagram that I did have of the car and, uh, pretty much decided that that had to be the problem.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It, it, the other switch could be the main switch itself, uh, that turns the lights on or off, which is on the dashboard	b	Uh huh.

sv	uh, it might be tied into the equation somehow,	b	Yeah, I know,

sd	I don't remember seeing one in the, uh, in the diagram	^2	Diagram.

sd	so I'll have to go back and look at that.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	you tend to think, well, there's one fuse operating the whole thing,

sv	that's a good idea.	sv	So, that's a possibility.

sd	and I hope that that's the case this time.	qy	Is this a, a mail order parts house that specializes in, in parts for parts for, uh, old imports?

sd	it's out of Kansas somewhere.	b	Um

sd	so I'll have to try to return that as well.	b	Yeah,

sd	but it's over like in the Brook Hollow industrial district down on Stemmons and Inwood area	b	Oh, yeah.

sd	instead of, uh, all import cars, he has narrowed it down to where he only works on, uh, German cars and {pause} German cars .	ba	I'll be darned.

sd	I just, however, did, uh, have to get a, a, uh, one of these jam box portable dual cassette players, uh, repaired.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I had to take it in,	ba	Oh, my goodness.

sd	uh, but it didn't do me any good, because I had, I had missed the window by about a week or two.	ba	Oh, no.

sd	But, uh, that's really my only experience in the past year where I've had to take a product back because of a defect.	sd	Well, ours wasn't within the last year.

ba	Good grief.	sd	And the other problem Judy would have is occasionally she would, uh, be driving along, uh, decelerating, like coming to a stop sign, but not yet stopped at the stop sign

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the engine would just quit.

b	Huh.	sd	which fortunately they replaced under warranty, because it was about a three hundred or three hundred and fifty dollar part

ba	My goodness.	sd	and, uh, so once they replaced it, then the, the car seemed to work fine for a considerable period of time,

b	Huh.	sd	and now it seems to be,

ad^t	so why don't you go ahead and start.	aa	Yeah.

ny	Yes, sir.	ba	That's great.

aa	exactly.	sv	and there's not a whole lot you can do without the equipment and electronic analysis that needs to be done on a car,

sd	I've had to have oil changes done myself because I live in an apartment complex, where we are not allowed to, work on our vehicle.	ba	dear.

sd	We can't even wash our vehicle,	ba	that's too bad.

sd	I had a sixty six Mustang,	b	Oh.

sd	and that was all right because like you said that was pre technology days, I guess.	aa	yes.

sd	but my main concern and what I enjoy doing was the interior.	b	Oh.

sd	It was taking you know, the whole interior apart and, you know, ordering new carpeting and,	qy	And did you install all that yourself?

na	Right.	qy^d	Well, that was, I bet that was a lot of fun.

sd	We sanded down the insides of the door panels. And painted, those and,	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I sold it.	ba	Well, that's too bad.

sd	and I was surprised at, the availability of parts yet.	b	Yes.

sd	Canada.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, prefabs and all that stuff	ba	Well, you know, that's fine.

nd	Well, actually there was.	bk	Oh.

sd	And, I had heard rumors that it was because they couldn't duplicate certain patterns, exactly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so like the glove box was just a little, little wider, little harder to fit in,	ba	dear.

sd	and the carpeting, stretched a little too far.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I had to cut some of the sides down.	ba	dear.

sd	The fourth one you couldn't get to lineup no matter what you did.	qy^g	 I bet that was frustrating, wasn't it?

sd	and, it runs. It works just the same,	aa	Right,

sd	I know you got, certain spring lever that you got to have or some, some spring pulley or something that you got to pull that spring back over onto that notch.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I helped him when I was growing up,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't have that stuff now,	b	Yeah.

sd	because of the drum brakes I, you know, don't have any choice but to take them in.	aa	Yeah,

b	Sure.	sd	so he took it into a shop and had it resurfaced and fixed that way.

sd	You didn't have to worry about finding a metric anything.	b	yeah.

qo	Well, what kind of music do you like?	sd	Well, seeing as how I'm a musician , I like all kinds of music.

b	Yeah.	sd	All very very kinds.

sd	I mostly like classical and jazz.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I play the trumpet.	bh	Do you ?

sd^e	Mostly the trumpet music baroque and, , Romantic.	^2	Jazz.

sd	Baroque and romantic.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the rest of them are just parts .	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	In fact I sing with a Texas baroque ensemble.

qw	Who are the trumpet players?	sd	Well, we used to have, Ralph Dutchen.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But now he is in Massachusetts.

^2	Leonard .	sd	And he has played.

b	Yeah.	sd	Rick, Bogarts played too

b	Uh huh.	sd	, but actually, I like trumpet and organ together.

^g	didn't he?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	With Paul.

b	Uh huh .	qy	So do you like romantic music?

no	Well, that is mostly the rest of good trumpet marks are romantic music, Mahler and Ruckner and Strauss .	b	Uh huh .

na	I am liking it more and more now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They are mostly Mozart.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, you know, I just like the melodies more and, libretto.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I like Rossini better than Puccini.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I like more comic licks.	b	Uh huh.

nn	No.	qy	Do you ever go to the Dallas Opera?

sd	only the Fort Worth Opera .	b	Uh huh.

sd	And my trumpet teacher used to play in the Fort Worth Opera.	qw	Who was your trumpet teacher?

sd	John Nelson.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Is he still around here?

sd^e	he plays in the Fort Worth Symphony and Fort Worth mostly.	sd	Because I have not seen him playing anywhere lately,

aa^r	Yeah.	sd	Well, I am basically a Church musician.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we do all kinds of music at my Church

qw	Which Church is it?	sd	The Christ United Methodist Church in Plano .

sv	It seems like a lot of Churches are hiring more musicians now than they use to.	aa	Yeah.

ny	Yeah.	sd	He plays at our Church a lot.

^g	isn't he?	na	I think so.

b	yeah.	sd	and, I think he teaches at Brookhaven.

sd	because I heard Glen Bell taught at Plano as well.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	the two of them are mainly pretty much the, they have cornered the market on trumpet.

qy^g^t	They're talking about, federal government, aren't they?	na	I'm sure,

b	Yeah.	qo	so what do you think in the short term we should be doing to improve it?

sd	and then they go and spend that money somewhere else	b	Right.

sd	and that's why the budget is never balanced.	b	Right.

sv	and they spend it somewhere else	b	Yeah.

sv	or you know, they pad out their staff, or, you know, spend it in bounced checks at the, commissary,	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, there isn't any sort of overall accountability,

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	like you were saying you say, you know, hey, you know, we just cut defense,

sv	Well, I think they should limit the Senate to one six year term.	sd	that's being batted around.

sv	and, keep Congress to, two terms of two years a piece	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they won't have the same people there all the time	b	Right.

sv	and then, all the special interest groups will have to renegotiate all of their their payoffs and kickbacks	b	Right.

sv	and that'll keep them busy enough so that they won't have as much influence.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The air bag came out, what, twenty years ago.	b	Right .

sd	And only now they're getting that put in cars.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	and then the government doesn't jump on them hard enough to make them do anything.	b	Right.

sv	It should have been done immediately.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, you don't expect to make any money out of it.

b	Right.	sv	And I don't have the feeling that national level politicians are at all like that.

sv	They listen to wherever the money is.	aa	Yeah.

ba	that's for sure.	sv	But on the other hand, maybe that's,

sd^t	They suggested that we, discuss what we think of when we say camping.	b	Yeah.

sd	Camping or, motor home is nice, travel trailer, pop up,	sd	I used to, live in the Ozarks and, liked to go up there and just take a backpack and strike out into the woods.

bf	You really rough it then.	aa	Yeah.

qy	Do you do that very often?	ng	I haven't done it in quite awhile since I moved down here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I used to do it quite a bit.

qy^d	You'd have a lot of hills down in that area.	ny	Yeah,

b^m	Yeah.	sd	it was real hilly.

sv	That would be really great.	sd	Take a twenty two

br	Pardon?	sd^r	Take a twenty two

qr	Did you go alone or with a group or,	sd	I used to go with my brother.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We just lived up there.

ba	that's great. Long as it's not raining.	b	Yeah,

b	Really,	sd	But I don't know much about camping in Texas.

sd	Well, I'm in Pennsylvania.	qy	You live in Pennsylvania? .

ny	Yes .	sd	I didn't know they did this.

qy	Are you in Texas, now?	ny	Yeah.

bk	Okay.	b	Yeah.

sd	but, we're up here in northwestern part of Pennsylvania.	sd	I used to be in Ohio,

sd	and we had access to a motor home which is really super great, if you don't want to rough it too much.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	just set it up

sd	and, we really enjoyed that.	^h	Tell you what,

br	Huh?	sd^c	I said I'm losing you,

qy	Is that better?	ny	Yeah.

bk	Oh.	qy	you try to go and take a vacation every year and go out and camp?

sv	If you get a rainy season and you happen to be camping then it can be kind of bad.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That's kind of rough when you got to fight snakes off when your sleeping.

qw	What kind?	sd	copperheads mostly,

sv	Those aren't too pleasant.	aa	No,

sv	You probably have more there, though, I would imagine.	aa	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	I don't know what it was,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then it was all year,

qy^d	But you still backpacked and camped out.	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	If it rained we were stuck back in there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You just get used to it.

qy^d	I guess you know enough to look where you're walking or sitting or whatever you're doing.	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	I would think a cave could have problems like that, too.	ny	Yeah.

qy	is your brother younger than you	ny	Yeah.

bf	You have a lot good experiences from that.	aa	Yeah.

qy	What, black ones?	ny	Yeah.

sv	That would be exciting.	aa	Yeah,

sd	They're on the increase in this area.	bh	really?

ny	Uh huh.	qy^g	they don't have them up there do they?

qy^h	The black bear.	ny	Yeah.

ny^m	yeah.	bh	do they?

sd	they've had longer hunting seasons than that even to get rid of more of them, because they were, increasing so much.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know what it's like now,

sd	I must say that, we really have a lot of fun, a lot of memories in that from camping	sv	Well, it's good to get out and smell some fresh air, too.

sv	so, it's a lot of work, too	b	Yeah.

fc	and I hope you get back into camping again, and do a little more of it.	fc	Yeah.

fc	and you have a good day.	fc	You, too.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

fp	how you doing?	fp	Fine.

qy^d	you're right here,	ny	Yes.

sd	I just, called and came in.	b	are you.

qy	Do you work at T I?	ny	Yeah,

sd^t	and I thought, I better make some calls.	aa	I know,

sd	Well, I haven't got a chance to look at them yet.	sd	It was a lot nicer than I expected.

sd^t	She's talked to two students.	sd^t	I've talked to,

ad^t	we're supposed to talk about the elderly now, I guess,	aa	Yes,

sd	She's not in a nursing home.	qy^t	did you push the button?

qy^t	didn't we push?	qy^d	Did we,

sd^t	I'll hit it again just in case.	b	Okay,

sd	But, she's she's down in San Antonio	b	Oh.

sd	It's at, Trinity,	b	Oh.

sd	and they have a retirement home for the nuns	ba	Well, isn't that neat.

sd	and they take some lay people.	ba	Isn't that neat.

sd	they do have a wing where the people who are really sick, you know have nurses.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean it's just super.	ba	That's neat.

sd	She just went in last year.	bk	Oh.

sd	she, she's perfectly healthy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she just did not want to take care of the house	b	Right

sd	and so she's happy as heck,	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	and they serve meals, of course.	ba	That's great.

sd	Now I know the ones where you're really ill, we visited a long time ago when she had a grandmother that was in one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they were all more or less hospitalized type you know, really, really sick.	b	Right.

sv	It's a tough question.	aa	Yeah,

sd	you got more experience than I do then on it.	sd	Well, it was really sad, heartbreaking, I guess.

aa^r	yeah.	sd	And, I just felt for those people, especially the ones that never got visited.

sv	that would be awful.	sd	That just bothered me.

sd	I never thought about that, you know.	sd	That just bothered me so much, especially, you know, at my age,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that really made a bad impression on me .

sv	and they're getting nicer.	b	Right.

sv	and boy that really pumps them up.	aa	Helps,

sv	I think that's one of the sad things, is when you're in an older home.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	If you just have people your own age, you never get a chance to see kids or anything or animals or anything, you know	b	Right.

sv	kind of obvious you can't take care of children or animals in a nursing home,	b	Right.

sv	but it's nice to have them visit and everything.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, sometimes that even helps them, just being around young people to, because some of them are so, just stationary

b	Right.	sv	I mean, they'll get in a wheelchair

sd	She's just about seventy five. Again, perfectly fine.	b	Yeah.

sd	she's much more alive and, active when she's been on a visit with somebody else, you know	b	Yeah.

sd	and our routine has obviously hectic with teenagers and everything	b	Right.

sv	and so the stimulation part is really important. I think, like any animal, anything	b	Right.

sv	you just lay around, that's the fastest way to die, I think, you know.	aa	Stagnant .

b	yeah.	sd	and that scares me.

sv^r	it's sad,	sv	It's sad to think that we would do that to people,

b	yeah.	sd(^q)	And I just think, how can you do that?

b	Yeah.	sv	and here is how we treat them.

sd	} living with them.	b	Uh huh .

sd	And I think, whether it's more a custom up there, or maybe because I was younger	b	Right.

sv	I guess that, well, we aren't getting away from that, which is not right.	aa	Right.

b	yeah.	sd	and that's one of my favorite things to do is sit around and listen to their stories.

b^r	right.	sv	I think that's neat,

b	Yeah.	sd	he had him late in life,

b	Oh.	sd	And he lives with different, you know, people in the family.

ba	Well, that's nice in a lot of ways.	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	Bet you were surprised that you said that by mistake.	sd	Lock him up.

sd(^q)	I think, Well, my kids better not do that to me.	aa	I know,

sd(^q)	So I think of it, Well, how would I want to be treated rather than, well,	aa	Right,

sd	I don't want to be	aa	That's right.

^q	but I'm not going to one of those places.	^q	you're going to put me away.

aa	yeah.	sd	That's what my mother,

sv	that's the way we call it, which is really wrong.	aa	I know.

sd	I mean it's a little hotel, you might say.	b	Right.

sd	She has two bedrooms, and a separate living area.	ba	Gosh.

sd	They don't have kitchens or anything	b	Right.

sd	but it's like on each floor they have a little kitchen area where you can go down and have a make a meal, you know.	b	Yes.

sd	I mean she's totally on her own.	ba	man.

sd	and we keep thinking about that, you know	b	Right.

sd	and they don't even understand what happened, you know.	b	Right.

aa	I know.	sv	and you take away that driving ability

qy	he still drives?	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	but I don't know if you can afford the insurance,	nd	Well, luckily he drives a big old tank .

b	Yeah.	sv	So, I mean, I don't think he, he could get hurt.

sv	I mean, people are all different.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I wonder if they should give them a test, or at least maybe give them a refresher driving course, just to see how well they are every five years.	sd	I saw that on TWENTY TWENTY.

qy	Are they doing it?	no	you know, they're testing that, they're, you know, thinking of doing that.

b	Yeah.	sv	and that doesn't help.

sv	and I don't know why you couldn't after sixty five every five years have a refresher course and then take another driving.	b	Right.

sv	the insurance companies would, would probably help pay for some of that, you know.	sv	At least that way the burden is not on the family of taking their license or their car away .

ba	there's a good point	sv	It's on the state .

fp	Hi.	qo	Well, what do you think?

sv	and it's become to a point where basically no one can afford it anymore.	b	Uh huh.

qo	How do you feel about the whole ordeal?	aa	Well, I agree that it's a big task,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And possibly, just starting with more regulation of health insurance and that sort of thing,

bk	Okay.	sv	just because it seems that, health insurance costs are sky rocketing, well, as fast as the national deficit perhaps

b	yeah.	sv	and that's a that's a vicious cycle, of course.

qrr	or do you think that,	nd	Well, well, I wouldn't exclude the possibility of the government actually administrating it ultimately.

sv	and the in , the people that can afford taxes, the middle income and the upper income will be paying more taxes to pay for health insurance for everyone, whereas right now the public themselves get health insurance	b	Right.

sv	and they provide their own health insurance.	sv	well, as it is now, the middle and upper classes are paying more than their share for the health care of the whole country because they're the only people that can afford health insurance

ar	I kind of disagree .	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess it's my fear of the national government and also because the bureaucratic rules that it would take to administer it	b	Uh huh.

sv	But in the same sense the care and the attitude of the doctors and the professionals within the medical, field would diminish.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Are you ready?	ny	Uh huh.

qy^t	She didn't announce that to you?	nd^t	I didn't quite hear all of it.

sv	I think, that's pleasurable for all of us, if we choose the right restaurant .	b	Right .

qw	So, what are your thoughts on dining out?	sd	Well, I really choose restaurants more for the quality of food than anything else.

qy^d	Not for the price?	na	Well, a little bit for the price,

bk	Okay.	sd	but, I think that as far as quality of food goes some of the most expensive places I've been had the, really the, the worst quality of food.

bk	Okay.	na^m	Really.

b	Uh huh.	sd	some of the best food I have ever had was outside or inside of a place that we drove up

qy^g	it's like mama in the back kitchen, huh?	qy	Yeah.

bk	Oh.	sd	I'm serious.

b	Yeah.	sd	one place that we went just recently was to Atchafalaya.

b	Uh huh.	ar	No,

b	Okay.	t3	What's the name of that restaurant?

qw	And where was that at, near your,	sd	Kalachandji's.

qy	is it in Dallas?	ny	Yes.

qy	Is it in the phone book?	na	I think so.

qy	Do you know how to spell it?	sd	it starts with a K.

bk	Okay.	sd	So . K A L A, I think, C H A N D.

bk	Okay.	sd	That should get you close enough to be able to find it.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But it's just fabulous food.

qy	Do you have a preference if you were going to, eat a fast food?	na	Well, we like Arby's. As far as, fast food goes.

sd	See I don't like Arby's.	bh	really?

^q	thank you.	ar	no,

sd	Well, that's not what I heard, from somebody that was supposed to know what they were talking about.	ba	my goodness.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm surprised.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

sv	Unless somebody is trying to blackball them.	sd	Well, that's happened before.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But w , we're, we like Mexican food.

bk	Okay.	sd	And stuff like that.

qy^g	but it's probably not advertised as such, is it?	qy^h	A health food?

sd^e	Health food, restaurants that,	ad	name one .

aa	Well well, like, well, I can't really think of any off the top of my head right now because there's so few and far between.	sd	I'm not sure what you're talking about.

sd	And they have very good food over there.	sd	I don't guess I've ever been to anything like that

sd	They do you know, list the fat,	sv	It would be good I think,

aa^r	uh huh.	qw^d	I don't know how expensive they are.

sv	which is kind of high for lunch I guess.	qy	For one person?

ny	Yes.	bk	Oh .

ny	uh huh.	sv	A bit .

sd	but, you were served by maitre d's and, men waiters.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, I guess if you were trying to impress somebody like taking somebody that you hadn't seen for a long time and wanted to show them a good restaurant. It's a special occasion, type thing.	aa	Yeah.

sv	And now the Red Lobster I found is very nice at lunchtime.	aa	Yeah,

sv	you can't beat that price, if you went to a cafeteria.	aa	Yeah.

sd	and it was exce ,	qw	Now why would you go to a seafood restaurant to eat chicken?

sd	it was,	sd	That's one of my husband's pet peeves.

sd	And I haven't gotten over that from the north.	sv	catfish is wonderful.

sd	I know they say that, that is,	b	really.

sd	but I'm, but they've got all these caution signs now on fish	b	Really.

sd	and so I kind of stay a ,	qw	Why?

sv	Because of all the pollution in the lakes and the, everywhere. I mean there isn't any safe haven anymore for fish.	bk	Oh.

sd(^q)	and especially, in Wisconsin and Michigan they say, no, buying of our fish.	sd	That's too bad, because I'm probably not going to stop eating it .

sv	and the best brand of chicken to buy is the, Pilgrim Pride because they don't use all these hormones to remote , unnatural growth in their products.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So I mean, we have to be on the lookout if we want to stay healthy.	aa	That's true.

^2	Corrode.	sd	So they're putting radioactive waste in it which reduces it dramatically.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then they take these things that will rust

sd	Well, I'd like to get ahold of some engineers and knock their heads together if it would do any good.	b	Oh.

ba	dear.	sd	And this is before I was born.

ba	Wow.	sd	So, I mean we're taking thirty years ago, this happened,

b	Yeah.	sv	and you know, the tuna is radioactive to a certain extent.

sv	Everything, everything we eat should have a label on it .	sv	You can't get away from it

b	Yeah.	b^m	yeah,

ad	You want to get a start?	aa	Certainly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it has been sort of raining on and off.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I am an avid gardener

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it has been threatening to rain for the last couple of days,

b	Yeah.	qo	How about Pennsyl ,

qy^d	your, your growing Summer starts a lot earlier than ours.	na	It starts in, March as a rule.

sd	We could still have a frost.	bh	Really,

ny	Uh huh.	qy	Could you have snow?

sd^e	But we have had a frost as late as in June.	sd	well, we do not have that problem .

sd	It is almost like an early Summer for us.	ba	that is nice.

sd	We could use a little more rain, I believe.	sd	well, I will be glad to give you some of ours .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then it stops for three months.

sv	If it could just be spread out a little bit.	b	Right.

sd	the weather they forecast for our area seems to go right past us and misses us. Just by, well not too many miles.	b	Uh huh.

ny	uh huh.	sv	Well, I know the weather is very important for people who make their living off of, off of the land.

sd	but we are not a farming person .	b	Uh huh.

sd	we have a garden.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we are not farmers.	sv	Well, you know there are some disadvantages to being down south.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And that is, it gets so hot that, you know, a lot of things die during the Summer from the heat.

sv	They get burnt off.	aa	they really do,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you have to be very careful to make sure you keep everything watered.

sv	Their farmers, I guess, are hurting because of that also.	aa	Yeah.

qh	so what do you do?	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	sd	it is very rough on them

b	Uh huh.	sd	Actually I think it is pretty moderate here in Dallas.

sv	and it makes a bit of a difference, too.	qw	what is your humidity like?

sd	I could be wrong.	sd	I do not know what it is percentage wise

sd	It had a different feel to it.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it is not dry.

sd	I know my brother's home has been flooded a couple of times,	qy	does he live near the lake?

sd	but it is more run off from surrounding, you know, areas and that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, he is just in an area where it is just low enough that you know, it, it collects there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, he has had a couple of inches in his house several times.	ba	that is a problem,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I know exactly what you mean.

sd	or, we are on a, where we are we get flooded, it floods below us , behind us.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But we are high enough that we never, you know, have had any problem like that.	ba	well, that is fortunate.

sd	and, we really like it here.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and this is very much home for me.

sd	I, I liked it when we visited there.	qy^d	I hope you visited during the winter.

ny	Uh huh.	sv	one of my theories is that you always go to warm places during the winter

sd	but it is hot to me in the wintertime down there.	b	sure.

sv	it is really a nice area.	sd	I had a friend from England visit once at Christmas,

b	Oh.	sd	And she went back to the north of England with a sunburn .

sd	I avoid the sun .	b	Well, yeah,

sd	And I try to cover up when I do the lawn .	sv	Well, that, that is really healthier, frankly.

sd	and, I decided it is not worth it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, we are just crazy .	sv	But you know, it is interesting because you get out in that sun an awful lot.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, she is five years younger than me,

bh	Is that right?	ny	Yeah,

sv	It, it just makes your skin more leathery.	sv	and I think that is why.

sd	They say it destroys a lot of that.	aa	Yes.

sd	And you lose a lot of that.	aa	Yes,

sd	We have really had really good weather of late.	ba	Good.

sd	and, it has just been a really nice Spring.	ba	Well, that is great.

qw	How long will they be there?	sd	probably four or five days.

sd	Well, I hope the weather stays real good for them. And, and, that you have a good visit and everything.	ft	Well, thank you .

fc	Well, it was really nice talking to you.	fc	A pleasure.

fc	So I hope you enjoy it as much as I have been enjoying it .	fc	I am sure I will.

fc	and I forget to make a call usually.	fc	Well, I am glad you have broken the ice with me because now, I will start doing it .

fc^r	great.	fc	Okay.

fc^m	Okay.	fc	Well, thanks, Jean.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

sv	 so I guess, you know, being that I come from a hunting family I'd rather have some restrictions put on weapons but yet allow hunting rifles, things that people would use for sporting type of, a, activity.	b	Uh huh.

sv	we need to put restrictions on them .	aa	I probably would have to agree with you pretty much all the way I think.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I definitely think that some things shouldn't be limited like you said, rifles and hunting rifles and possible handguns for people who use them to,

aa	sure.	aa	Right.

sv	To do massive amounts of killing,	aa	Right.

sv	The only thing that I can see is the police having it in a case where somebody is, you know, going to kill a massive amount of people or, somebody that's escaping, that's, very dangerous	b	Uh huh.

sv	semiautomatic would allow more rounds to be put out to hopefully catch the person and, get him down.	b	Right.

sd	they're very much into sporting you know, as far as hunting and also like, clay pigeons things like that.	b	Right.

sv	but I figured if the criminals had to take a hunting gun out to kill somebody, more than likely, somebody would see it, you know what I'm saying versus you know, a small handgun, that can be, you know, put right in your coat pocket	aa	Right,

sv	but yet, you can't stop people from having, you know, a handgun in their home.	b	Right.

sv(^q)	Even if there are small children around, there's, you know, you can't say people with small children can't have guns	b	Uh huh.

sv	and people without small children that may have grandchildren, you know still have these guns	b	Yeah.

sd	but I guess I was always taught, number one, a gun isn't a toy.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	you know, and I don't know if that makes a difference if the parent sets down to them and say this gun can kill you, you know and don't ever play with it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I don't know if that makes a difference or what	sv(^q)	Well, in that ca , I think that cases like that it's definitely, I think if you're to say okay,

sv	The criminals would get them. I mean even if they had to go across border to get them.	aa	Right,

^2	How you know, to make sure the guns are put up as something as not a toy.	b	Right.

sd	Because we had guns all over our house when we were kids	b	Uh huh.

sd	and not that they were laying on the, couch or anything like that	b	Right.

sd	but, I never had an interest in them, being in the fact that I knew that guns could kill	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I had four brothers and never messed with any type of guns	b	Right.

sd	and so it was kind of the idea that we knew that a gun could kill and that a gun wasn't a toy	b	Right.

sd	and we went through, the National Rifle, Club	b	Uh huh.

^q	and you're going to learn how to have safeguards and and know how to protect yourself	b	Uh huh.

sv	they have to have a certain respect for it.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	because he used to hunt years ago

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I knew we had the guns in the house

b	yeah.	sd(^q)	but it was never, my brothers, sisters nor I never, I mean none of us ever thought well let's go look at the gun

b	Yes.	sd	and it was your father's

b	Yeah.	sv	and that's the thing that should be, you know, stressed.

qw	how's the weather been in Plano? .	sd	Basically about the same as what you've probably had.

sv	this is probably unusual topic to give two of us in the same city.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'm ready for it to come back.	qy^g	you like the rain, do you?

sd	and today I know when I got up that the temperature said more like, close, seventy nine or eighty	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I'm kind of ready for the pumpkin weather.	bh	are you?

qy	You don't	nn	No.

qy	are you a summer person?	na	I'm a summer person

bh	Are you?	na	I like the heat.

sd	and they have more of the four seasons.	b	Yeah,

bf	you're used to that, too.	sd	I just don't like the cold.

sv	and the problem here in Plano is it doesn't last very long.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and then it's cold	b	Yeah.

sd	and I wish it were several months of that.	sd	the other thing is I don't like the rain either.

sd	But if you have to get up and get out in it, I don't like it either .	sd	Well, we have several children that are in sports,

sv	That kind of schedule, you really need a lot more sunshine.	sd	I like it better, I think.

sd	And also the evenings are going to be getting, darker sooner as it gets cooler.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Sometimes when you work up a sweat you need it to be a little bit cooler.	sd	The thing about when it gets hot here is, I don't like the humidity,

sd	They had to get the squeejies and clean them off.	b	really.

sd	the humidity, especially for curly heads like me.	bh	is that right?

sd^e	I do not like the humid , .	sd	well, I guess I can't say that I don't like the rain completely.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, I don't know if that's because plants are just that way

sd	I know our grass needs mowing twice as often when it rains	b	Uh huh.

sv	It seems like when it gets stuck in a rain pattern, that's all it does.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I guess my best would be probably sixty eight when you wake up or sixty six, and then probably seventy five during the day.	sd	Well I like seventies I like seventies okay.

qy	do you like the heat in the summer then when it gets up in the nineties and hundreds.	ng	I don't like nineties.

b^r	yeah.	sd	You can give me seventies

b	Yeah.	sd	and you can give me eighties

qy^d	keep it there .	sd	and I'm okay.

b	Yeah.	sd	I stay in the house because it's just, It's just too hot.

sv	But then we started thinking, especially in Plano, the weather is so hot in August, that there really isn't a lot the children can do outside anyhow.	aa	Yeah,

sd^c	Static here.	bd	That's okay .

sv	I think a lot of people agree the same.	sv	It just really gets way,

aa^r	uh huh.	sd	and we've been here for several years,

sd	In fact this morning when they were talking about, Harold Taft, they were talking about how this has been one of the milder of the summers and milder fall,	^2	Years,

sv	well those are the ones that like the cold weather.	aa	Yeah,

sv	It was it was really a shame.	sv	A good weather man,

sv	He didn't go with all the gimmicks that some of them did.	aa	Yeah.

bk	Okay.	ad	you don't have to wait for them to say cut off your time.

ba	good.	ad(^q)	You just say, Have a good day or whatever.

fc	well, then have a good day.	fc	You too.

fc	And I hope you enjoy the weather this week.	fc	You too.

ny	Yeah.	sd	as a matter fact, I work out in the mornings.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I have got a routine for every morning of the week

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I do a combination of, running and weight training .

qy^d	They set that up for you.	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I pretty much, worked on my own routine.

qo	And, what kind of running do you do?	sd	They have got the track on the inside.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I run one mile on Monday, Wednesdays and Fridays

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then after that, I work out with weights.

qy	is just aerobics	sd	I work out with free weights.

sd	I mean the running.	ny	yeah.

qy	you do a mile in about eight minutes or less?	na	about seven minutes.

qy	then you don't get, out of breath.	nn	no

bk	Oh.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	But, I mean it's not pushing it real hard, like, you know, if you tried to make six or something like that.	ny	yeah.

b	Right.	sd	And I wouldn't be able to work out anything else.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	I did when I was in school.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Right now I just lift, weights and do push ups and sit ups	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I, jump rope a little bit	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that is about it .	b	Yeah.

sd	they are about a third of my body weight.	bk	I see.

sd	and the, the more upper body strength, the easier it is to play.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and then, I hurt my neck, about three years ago.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, you really have to build up around your neck and your shoulders to keep from, hurting yourself when you play high.	b	I see.

sd	but a lot of people, strain themselves doing it.	b	I see.

na	I play at Church.	bk	I see,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I was just wandering if that was what it was or something.

b	Uh huh .	qy	So do you have any plans of maybe running more when the weather gets nicer?

sd^e	well the weather is nice except for when it rains, you know I mean in Dallas.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mostly jump rope more.	b	Uh huh.

b	You know.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I could do a lot of jump rope and other jumping exercises to try to build my calves.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, it has been a while since I have done that.

sd	I do a toe lift and squats for that.	b	Right.

sv	But you know it doesn't, doesn't, accustom your legs to the kind of strength that you have like when you are running for a long time.	b	Right.

sv	They tend to tighten up whenever you have to do something at, great length of time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And it also builds too much mass if you just, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I, I lift weights with about the same curl weight as I do the squats with.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, then it doesn't bother me very much.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	that is why, well, you know, I was thinking to talking to one of their counselors and seeing what different exercises they could get me on to, get out of the routine.

b	Right.	sd	Because I have heard that, you know, you get locked into a routine then you are going to get to a point where you just stop developing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I am looking at changing things a little bit.

sd(^q)	and then I add sets to it so that I don't like you said, wear it out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't try to push it so the end in one set.	b	Yeah.

sd	all set.	fp	Good morning .

sd	well, I play a couple of instruments.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I try to.	qw	What do you play?

sd	and I also play a little bit of saxophone, flute and piano when I get the opportunity, which isn't very often.	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about yourself?	sd	I play, the violin and play trumpet

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I run a municipal band

ba	wow.	sd	So, I'm pretty busy too.

ba	Wow.	sd	We have a nice big one here in State College, called the Nitny Valley Symphony.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I play in the Altoona Symphony,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I play in a slightly smaller one called the Lockhaven Symphony and Community Orchestra.

qy	So are you a professional musician?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	only I should have been.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I've been working at, Penn State and using up all my nighttimes, and weekends going to these orchestra rehearsals and concerts and so forth.

sd	We generally have a concert every other week	qy^d	You have one that often.

ny	Yeah .	sd	That's amazing because I, I have it set up here that we have at least six to seven rehearsals per concert.

sd^e	we sure don't.	ba	Wow.

sd	and every single Sunday night we play at the library to have a little outdoor stage set up	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so we do that every Sunday night during the summer,	sv	You are busy.

sd	and we're just having to turn a lot of people down, because, you know, we don't want to do things like have a concert back to back or even two days in a row.	qw	Where do you get all this music,

sd	and you just flip through it, and that sort of thing.	bk	okay.

no	It really depends on who shows up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	because so many people switch instruments so often.	b	Right.

sd	in the winter we do more concert stuff	qw	How many people in your band?

sd	I think there's about seventy.	b^m	Seventy.

sd	there's a lot.	ba	Holy mackerel,

sd	But, on any given night there's not seventy you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it alternates quite a lot.	ba	Boy,

aa	it really is.	sd	Because about the best I can normally hope for is about fifty in, in the band I have here.

b	Yeah,	sd	But that fills a stage and keeps us busy,

b	okay.	sd	And so they want to play things that, push them to do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We have about four concerts per year indoors and two or three that we play outside.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the last one we did was in a large, mall close here,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	So that worked out very nicely.

ba	that's fun.	b	Yeah.

sd	Someone at work is trying to get me to join that one, because they need clarinet players	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think they're like Monday nights and they don't have rehearsals during that time period.	ba	Wow,

sd	but some people are,	bk	Okay.

sd	some of them are.	qw	And where does this happen, Laurie,

nd	Well, they're in the suburbs of Dallas, in Richardson and Plano.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We're real close to Dallas.	ba	Well, I declare.

b	Yeah.	ba	That's amazing.

sd	well, I think it's very much more of a social group than anything else, you know.	b	Okay.

sd	and people always bring refreshments for after rehearsal and hang around for an hour or so	b	Okay.

sv	and, That's probably why we get so many people.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we do get some money from the city because we do play at a lot of city events.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think he's the only one that gets paid.	b	Uh huh.

ny	uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sd	it's a similar thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	but the same type of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we can borrow music from any of the area colleges	b	Yes.

sd	or, you know, if some group just isn't going to play any more, they'll just give us their music, and that type of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we get a lot of donations.	sd	Well, I work the same way .

b	Yeah .	ba	Well, I'll be darned.

o	Okay.	b^m	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we just don't want that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And plus, we both like to cook,

sd	well see, I'm the third oldest of twelve children.	ba	my gosh.

sd	My youngest sister is five.	b	yeah.

sd	and we haven't discussed this at all .	b	Yeah,

sd	like if we do watch T V at night, they just like enjoy just, like laying on top of me or something.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we like to play like kick ball and softball and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's it, you know.	qy	so if you're, if you're not doing any kind of sport thing you go to one of your sisters' or brothers' sporting events. And sort of like be there with them.

sd^e	we go and watch.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Well, that's good, too, I mean, as far as entering,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean at least you're encouraging them on and stuff

b	Yeah.	sd	because, even if our kids, you know, get into sports that we're really not interested in, I want them, you know, to know that we're still there so to speak, as a family.

sd	I mean, they'd be in the audience screaming and yelling, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	and they're not really even participating.	b	Yeah,

aa	Uh huh.	qy	do people go off in their own little groups with that many?

sd^e	the one down thing about having that many people in our family is we really don't have any privacy when we're at home, because you couldn't possibly have a house with twelve bedrooms.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I like to spend time with them.	b	Yeah.

nd	We were all pretty close when we were younger.	bk	I see.

sd^e	now that we're getting older, you know, each one of us are going our own direction.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	qw	I mean, what did you do when you were younger,

sd	we couldn't go outside because of the snow and stuff	b	Uh huh.

sd	like we try hurtling our couches and stuff. You know, and.	qy^d	Hurling.

sd^e	we would just run and jump over the couches.	bk	hurtle,

sd	So we could like play hide and go seek in our house and even stuff like that.	bf	So you had a lot of games and things you played even when you were kids with the ones that you,

sd	Like, my sister that's closest to me, we're only fourteen months apart.	b	Yeah.

sd	So there was never just one alone, you know.	b	Yeah,

sd	So we were all pretty close where we always had a buddy to play with, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	not at all.	bk	okay.

sd^e^r	Not at all .	sd	I mean, I don't speak with many people that come from families that large any more.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I mean, that's his mother you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv*	and their Catholic / * they're

sd	I'm Catholic .	sv	Well that's it then, I think,

b	Uh huh.	qr	But, I mean, do you see yourself having thirteen kids or twelve kids?

sd^e^r	Not at all.	b	Yeah.

sd	but to me five wasn't even a lot, because I was just so used to twelve.	b	Yeah.

b	You know.	sv	But it's so expensive, man.

sv	it would be really hard now to have twelve children.	sv	I would think for your parents it would still be hard even nowadays, I mean, just to raise twelve kids.

sd	Well, Well, okay, well like my oldest brother, he's twenty four,	sv	Would be, shoosh.

sd	but she works you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I think she even gives mom and dad a little bit, you know, of rent money.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, it's kind of like they don't, you know.	sv	Well sometimes I think maybe the larger families create more independence in the children though, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sv	so you kind of have your own independence on going out and getting it yourself, if you really want it.

sd	I've always had my own checking account since I was in like tenth grade.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and there's a lot of kids up here that would have no idea how to even do a checkbook or, you know, to manage money.	b	Yeah.

sd	Like my roommate's laughing you know, at me, you know, because their schooling's paid for.	qh	know, you know, how to even go about getting money.

aa	uh huh.	qh	You know, how to get a job or you know, just you know, what, when you get a job, what your responsibility is.

b	Yeah.	qh	Are you going to blow all that money,

sd	So when we all graduated college, from high school, we all got,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I pay for my own life insurance too.	sv	Wow, you've really got responsibilities.

sd	And then And then, like, my mom and dad, because there's so many of us, and because of the way the laws are, you know, now, if we want to drive, we have to pay for our own insurance on our cars.	b	Yeah.

h	You know, I don't know.	b	Yeah.

sd	So you know, if we want to drive, we pay our own insurance,	sv	So really, I think, sometimes there's an advantage,

b	Uh huh.	sv	It makes you know that you can't take anything for granted that when you get something you're lucky to get it, so to speak you know.

b	Uh huh.	h	So, I don't know,

qy	Do you, do any woodworking?	na	I do,

qy	for a hobby or for,	ny	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I have my own equipment,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so, I like to cut out my wood, and then tole paint on the items that I cut out.

nd	My husband cuts them out	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, he likes using the little band saws and jig saws more than the stroll saw, because the stroll saw is a lot slower	b	Uh huh.

sd	but now he wants a plunge router.	bk	Oh.

sd	and then I took a tole painting class to learn how to paint them right, you know.	bk	Oh.

sd	And what we want to do is, you know, make them, and then maybe take them to these craft shows or flea market things and see if we can sell some of them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I really like it so far.	ba	that is fun.

sd	And then my neighbor had a little doll made out of wood	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then it's just a wooden doll with a painted face	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you stick in like rope and tie ribbons around it.	b	Oh.

sd	So I've got a couple of those started.	sv	They are really cute.

sd	but as far as wood work, that's all we've been doing right now.	ba	that sounds really fun.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I just got back from that today,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You could make a lot of money from those.

qrr	or you just given them to them on consignment or something?	na	apparently,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You would put your sell price

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and then they would take twenty percent off of that at the counter.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And so then at the end of the boutique, which usually runs for a week, then they give you what you earned .

b^r	uh huh.	sd	So, you have to decide what your price is going to be and then up it twenty percent so you can get what you need out of it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So if the customers are willing to pay it, then you get a profit.

sv	these little things are so cute, though, you know.	aa	They are.

sd	I went through some of the books down here at the craft shop, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	In fact, I just sent to Shop Smith back in Ohio for a rocking horse pattern.	sd	that's what I want, is a Shop Smith .

sd	we, well, Gene's got one of those too .	bh	does he?

ny	Yeah,	ba	you're lucky.

sd	well, he's retired now	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I'm still looking for a part time job, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, he has all day long that he can, you know, work on this stuff and do do cut outs like that, you know.	b	Oh.

sd	And he's got a lot of tools,	ba	how nice.

sd	But, these little wooden things, they seem to sell really good.	b	Uh huh.

sd	My next door neighbor, every time she sees something, she thinks it's so cute she wants to buy it, you know .	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I'm just hoping you know, that we can get some cut out and painted, you know, before summer starts because we don't want to have garage sales or anything like that in the winter time, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it seems like they go real good, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I live out in the valley	b	Uh huh.

sd	and country seems to be the in thing out here you know,	b	Oh.

sd	So anything that looks like it might be country is what they want, you know.	qy^g	They just snap it right up,

ny	Yeah.	bk	Oh.

sd	it's going to have little wooden hearts holding it, in its hands and then welcome written on those little wooden hearts.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I heard Dallas is pretty bad with the crime.	sd	Well, you know, you know last night I was listening to the, ten o'clock news.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And for the first five to seven minutes of a news broadcast all they were talking about was the number of shootings, the number of drug deals that were going on, and crime

sd	The same way here in Dennison.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I'm pretty sure they'd been shot and put the freezer at the fast, food restaurant.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They don't have that much money on hand,	b	Yeah.

sv	they really don't.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I just couldn't believe, you know, that

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, because of, the crime

sd	My husband worked at a gas station when he was a teenager.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and one of the guys that was working was shot,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, Kenny quit the next day.	b	Uh huh.

sd	he couldn't deal with it.	b	Yeah.

aa	Everywhere.	sv	it doesn't matter if you live in a small town or if you live in a large city like this.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I just think about all the different ways that we have to protect ourselves from,

sv	It just seems like a lot of people are attracted to the bigger cities though,	b	Uh huh.

sv	the worst part of it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I lived in Louisville, Kentucky for a while,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but Louisville was pretty bad especially during like the, Kentucky Derby.	b	Yeah.

sd	At this time of the year it's horrible to live in Louisville.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Plus, I have the special lights on the outside.

qy^d	The ones that blink off and on.	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	By themselves I mean.	ny	yeah,

b	Right.	sd	but, I mean it's just I'm constantly think about keeping us safe and protected, verses,

qw	How many kids do you have?	sd	Two.

qy	a boy or?	sd	One of each.

sd	that's what I've got,	b	Yeah.

qy	are they babies or,	nn	No,

sd	I've still got babies.	b	Yeah

sd	I've got a four year old. He'll be four. And a three month old.	ba	wow.

sv	And it's scary , sometimes.	b	Yeah.

sd	we don't live in the city,	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's still more crowded than what I'm used to,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and this one's got houses on either side and, you know, real close together,	b	Yeah.

sd	They've stolen gas out of our vehicles.	ba	goodness.

sd	And so he went and got a locking gas cap for his.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They weren't stealing it out of mine so much, because the gas thing is kind of weird where it's hard to, syphon gas out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they tried to break that off.	ba	my goodness.

sd	And you , excuse me. He went down to Uba , and noticed that it was hanging off where they had tried to break it off.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they stole our tailgate off his truck .	ba	goodness.

sd	Well, we can't say they did	^2	Someone did,

sd	and, you know, they'd seen it earlier.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's, more of a matter of the steps that you do to keep yourself safe,

sv	Well, the only thing that we can do as citizens is, you know, like, watch groups that they'll have.	b	Uh huh,

sv	But they can be dangerous too.	b	Really.

sd	I've thought about it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	you can get yourself into trouble.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I thought, gee whiz, you know, I don't know if he's really doing that or not or if he's the person who lives there.

sd	They'll break in in the daytime,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you try to get in your house	b	Uh huh.

sd	that half the time it takes you to break in.	b	Uh huh.

sd	a professional could break in, in, half that time.	^2	Half that time,

aa	It is.	sv	So scary you think you've got yourself all locked in and safe,

b	Uh huh.	sd	that's the one thing that I like.

sd	I want a German Shepherd.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't want any of those ones that will up the kids,	b	Right.

sd	but I do want a German Shepherd.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because my husband will leave every once in a while, for,	b	Uh huh.

sd	he works on the railroad.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I'm scared here by myself.	b	yeah.

qy^d	And loud.	na^m	And loud,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And ease very protective,

sv	Well that's, now that's one of the best deterrents for a robber is a noisy neighbor even if the neighbor's got a noisy dog.	aa	yeah.

sv	That's a deterrent.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Because they know that that dog's going to bark.	aa	That's right.

sv	But it's easy to fool a dog too.	b	Yeah.

sv	you know, throw them meat or	b	Uh huh.

sv	a real intense burglar can just get another dog that's in heat.	b	Right.

sd	you know, saw it on T V.	ba	wow, gosh.

fc	it was.	fc	Okay.

fc	And maybe we'll meet up again.	fc	Okay.

fc	All righty.	fc	Bye bye.

ad	So, describe your family budget.	sd	Well, for a lot of years I, I've pretty much flied without one,

sv	and to some extent, utilities, I imagine.	ar	well, the utilities are pretty much,

sd	but it's not quite as good.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I guess you own a car.	ny	Yes

qy	And you know how much you're going to drive every week?	no	Well, I used to know, fairly close to exactly how many miles I drove, because I was very convenient, I lived, nine tenths of a mile from work.

sd	So there is a real family budget.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I can remember years ago, when school would start,

sv	If you're lucky.	aa	yeah,

qr	Exempt or nonexempt.	sd	I'm exempt.

sd	We have the fixed things we have to pay.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But it seems that by and large the extras just don't exist.	b	Yeah.

sd	car payment sucks a hell of a lot of it dry.	b	Uh huh.

qy	is insurance bad there?	sd	I've got, two older cars.

sd	Well, we've got one eighty nine.	sd	And my insurance it was running about four hundred dollars a year.

bf	four hundred and something a year.	ar	It's actually three hundred and forty for each one of the cars.

sd	That's cheaper than we pay.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, here in Colorado it's even worse because we have no fault.	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you have that there?	sd	they have no fault in Maryland also.

sd	Well, no fault's rather funny in Colorado, because it seems that everyone pays all the time instead of just the guilty party pays.	b	Yeah.

bh	You're kidding.	nn	Nope.

ba	God.	qw^d	I don't know how familiar you are with Maryland,

sd	Not at all.	sd	especially, the center part of Maryland where I Ninety Five runs through it is really heavily populated.

qy^d	They don't even try to keep up with it.	nn	No.

ba	God.	sd^e	Not a bit.

qy	So you lived in Texas for a while.	ny	Yes

qw	where you from originally.	sd	right here in Maryland.

bf	so you just basically went home when you had a chance.	aa	Yeah,

ba	That's nice.	sd	So I got an opportunity to transfer back,

sd	I'm a native Texan.	b	Uh huh.

sd	West Texan.	b	Yeah.

sv	There is a difference.	aa	Yeah,

ny	Yeah.	sd	but maybe five percent of the Plano actually were from Texas.

sd	Well, I'm a West Texan.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Lubbock, Midland Odessa Amarillo, Dumas, Panhandle.	b	Yes.

sv	A different world from down there.	b	Yeah.

sd	And every time you look at the mountains or think about looking at the mountains, you got to throw in a dollar.	b	Yeah.

sd	but that state income tax is just eating me alive.	b	Yeah,

aa^m	Property taxes and,	ba	my God,

sd	and they just get you every direction they can.	b	Yeah.

sv	but it seems like they trying to get you every which way.	aa	Yeah,

bh	yeah?	sd	Charles D. Gibbons is the guy who runs some ads on light night T V

sd	I've heard of the book.	b	Yes,

qy^d	Legally, cut money on your taxes.	ny	Yes,

qy^d	And that includes everyone at T I.	ny	Yes,

sd	Well, even, you know, the nonexempts, technically yet we haven't had our salary frozen yet.	b^m	Yet.

sv	You know, survival is a funny state.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I was appalled at how they were paying them.

sv	and it doesn't seem to get much better for the exempts either, unless you're twenty eight or above.	aa	Yeah,

sv	It's really a shame.	sd	Well, I've, this company that they bought, they ended up buying a very high payroll.

b	Oh.	sd	And, you know, I thought I was making a good wage,

sv	I think if somebody's not on drugs, they have no reason, you know, to be afraid of it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	like, I don't think one test positive should, be, the end of it, you know.	b	Right.

sv	I think they should test more than once.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh .	sv	And I don't see that.

aa	That's right.	sv	and they, I believe that, they have the right to know if you're using a dangerous substance .

sv	There's so many jobs that, really have other people's lives in their hands or even their own life	b	Uh huh.

qh	how can you do anything about a problem besides if you don't know about it?	b	Right.

sv	You know, and I, I think there definitely needs to be some control to it.	b	Right .

sv	I guess it is possible to have a false positive report.	aa	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Just because you, something can get mixed in the mail,

sv	Or somebody's test gets mixed up with somebody else's.	b	Right.

sv	I mean, those things do happen.	b	Yeah.

sd	I certainly wouldn't want people's lives ruined wrongly.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh .	sd	And, they say that you know, they, they, they've also implemented random testing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And , it hasn't happened to me in the couple of years that, you know, it's been in progress

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I fully agree with it

b	Uh huh.	sv	if, if you feel it's an invasion of privacy, you've probably got something you're trying to hide .

sv	and you maybe need to look for some other type of job to do that, doesn't require the testing.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think people have a right to know if, their life maybe's in jeopardy or, Yeah.	^2	Or, the quality of their product.

sv	If not immediately, it certainly does eventually.	b	Yeah.

sv	It doesn't seem to, bother the quality of work	b	Uh huh.

sv	but eventually it does.	aa	Right,

sv	and it's destroying a lot of people's lives .	sd	and then and one of the few that they don't have a cure for .

sv	and I think that person, plus anybody in danger should know about it and be aware of it.	aa	Yeah.

sd	So, I kind of get off on a tangent here.	b	Yeah .

qy	do you work for, Texas Instruments?	ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm down in the central,

sd	That's near Dallas.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We're probably about two, two and a half hours south of him.

qy^d	It's pretty hot down there probably.	na	my!

b	Yeah .	sd	actually, we got about two inches of rain in about three hours, yesterday.

bh	did you really?	sd	And it's cooled things down somewhat.

ba	that's great.	sd	It's getting more humid now,

sd	we need rain real bad up here.	b	Uh huh .

sd	everything's really getting dry.	b	Yeah .

sd	and, it's getting real bad.	ba	Wow.

sd	I can't think of anything else,	b	Yeah,

sv	there's a lot of people that think that there's nothing wrong with .	sd	One of the things I found interesting,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we have manufacturing plants all around the world including some places where the use of certain drugs that are illegal here are not illegal.

b^r	uh huh.	b	Yeah,

ba	I'll be darn.	b	Yeah,

sd	the different cultures and that too, .	b	Yeah.

sv	I can't think that would make any difference whether it was legal or not,	b	Yeah.

sv	it would still have to affect you the same way.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean if, you know, that's the trade off.

aa	you go by their laws.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, some of the countries are very much against drugs	b	Right.

sv	and you use them, you pay for it .	sv	Usually with you life in some places.

qw	where is it if they steal they lose a thumb or a finger?	aa	That's right.

qy	Is that where it is?	ny	Yeah.

ba	I thought, wow .	b	Yeah .

sv	You know, that's quite a deterrent .	sd	Well, in Saudi Arabia, you know, using, alcohol and drugs and something like that, you get the death penalty.

b^r	Yeah.	sv	So, it's pretty strict over there .

sv	So I guess, you know, we have so many freedoms over here we sometimes forget about how great out country really is.	sv(^q)	Well, people tend to take the first amendment out of context. which means you know, I could do anything I want to

b	Uh huh.	^q	and you can't stop me,

sv	they abuse it is what they do.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	h	I don't know.

qw	What age, if you don't mind me asking.	sd	Well, I'm, thirty one.

sd	I'm in my early fifties ,	b	Yeah,

sv	you're young .	sd	you know, I've seen a social change,

qy	Every day?	ny	Yeah.

ba	I can believe that .	sd	And, it started, you know, actually going to work in eighty two,

sd	Right now.	^h	Yeah,

sv	I think probably the big major change is the role of women.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think, one, the women, in the work force.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but they're more apt to be in political offices now.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think, you know, we've made great strides in that respect.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that thirty years ago, when, I was newly married, family was very, very important.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think the family unit is becoming much more important than it was.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, I know that economically, a wife almost has to work anymore.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And yet, I'm also noticing, in the areas that I'm working and stuff, more and more women are wanting now to stay home with the children where fifteen years ago they didn't.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but they still wanted to be their own person out in the work force.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I am seeing women now wanting to stay home more, at least until the children are up to, you know, school age.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, I find that very interesting that it's sort of reverting back.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but still, you know, after five years, it's like, first kid

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	and then they're out of the work force for another ten years.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	But, I think most of those people are still out .

aa	Probably.	sv	I think that generation, they're all at home right now

aa^r	uh huh.	sd	very rarely do I meet anybody whose children are, you know, past that age when they've been away for a few years.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, it's kind of different.

sd	I, I note that I had, taken care of my grandchildren recently while my daughter and her husband had been out of town.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I do not envy these mothers or these fathers that have the children that they have to rush home from work and pick them up at day care, get them through their homework, get them to their soccer practice get them to their piano lessons.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't envy these young parents .	sd	I'm an assistant Scout Master

aa^r	That's true.	sv	Especially now.

h	I don't know.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	and you know, running into these, women that are wanting to have their children at the age of thirty nine, forty, I'm thinking at the age of fifty two, you're crazy .	b	Yeah.

^q	And you're absolutely nuts .	sd	I know two women that,

sv	but you can also get gray hairs and have a nervous breakdown .	sd	I'm thirty,

o	Okay.	qy^d	Well, I take it since you selected this topic that you have children.

sd^e	I don't,	bh	You don't?

sd	but I have nine younger brothers and sisters.	ba	My goodness.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I don't have to worry about child care too much anymore.

sv	Or probably even baby sitters would be the same thing.	aa	Exactly.

sd	and I would want to know if they've had any past experience with children.	b	Uh huh.

b^m	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that varies.

aa	that's true also.	sv	you know, it's, once they get to a certain age it's almost more important that it's someone that can entertain your child as opposed to someone who's, you know, really qualified per se.

b	Uh huh.	sv	with a baby, definitely have to be someone who knows how to handle a baby and would know how to respond to an emergency.

sd	The only other thing they asked me is what I would expect in pay.	b	uh huh,

sd	You know, and, I was pretty surprised because if I had a child and someone, you know, I personally would ask for people that that person has baby sit for before.	sd	Well, my experience, I baby sat a lot also when I grew up

b	Uh huh.	sv	And that gives you so much basic knowledge that you don't ask a whole lot of questions.

b	Uh huh.	sd	because I had three younger brothers and sisters myself

sd	so she just asked my mom if I could baby sit.	b	Uh huh,

sd	One was still in diapers when I started baby sitting.	ba	Wow.

sd	But, with today's world and the kids today, I can't say that I would just ask someone, you know, that I didn't know like that to baby sit.	aa	I agree with you,

aa	that's true.	sv	and she met in a safe setting, such as church.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So she was going on those two instincts.

sd	I would be too .	sd	and i , it really shocked me

ba	my.	sd(^q)	And I thought, well she doesn't know me or my children from anything.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And I was almost more reluctant of letting my older children go baby sit for her because I didn't know her then she was reluctant of letting strangers into her house.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, I mean people are so different.

qy^d	well, I, obviously you've never had to look for a day care or anything.	nd	Well, I did have, my child, in a day care for just a short time when my oldest was about two and a half

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I worked just a part time job

b	Uh huh.	sd	that was a concern with me.

b	Uh huh.	ad	go ahead.

qw	or what was it?	sv	I, I think I went by location for one thing.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think most people do that.

sv	I would say most people would probably go by word of mouth.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, I mean, you're not going to take your child south of town if you work north. even if that's the best one in the whole wide world .

b	Uh huh.	sv	So there are just so many considerations.

qy	Then again, did, money come into play with it at all?	na	money is always a factor in my life, definitely.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Montessori school would be something that I would have pursued,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I was very very fortunate in that I didn't have to do that on a full time basis.

o	Okay.	b	All right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so basically at this point I'm a real walker.

sd	I am, too.	bh	Are you?

ny	Yes.	sd	I don't do I guess I'll call it that fancy type walking where they kind of move their hips, you know, and keep their arms up.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't do that.

ba	that's good.	sd	I can't neglect that because of the baby either.

qw	And how old is your baby?	sd	well, she was premature,

sd	Well, I walk two and a half to three miles every night.	ba	that's great.

sd	My husband and I were on Nutrisystem about eighteen months ago	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I lost twenty one.	ba	my goodness.

sd	and we walk our dog every night and go up around the elementary school.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We have a little path that we do. except if it's raining or real cold which it hasn't been	b	Uh huh.

sd	we try to get out, every night.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so I think the walking is enough to help us stay in shape and toned.	sv	Well, I think that is just wonderful.

aa	Yes.	sd(^q)	You know. it's not to where I'm just so freed up that I just go, this is wonderful,

sd	so we will just go out after that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, my kids, luckily, are old enough I can leave them at home alone while I go out and walk.	b	Yeah.

ny	Yes.	ba	see, now that's really nice.

aa	Yes.	sd	Because mine's at meetings sometimes

sd	my husband never was either until he lost the weight.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and his doctor said he needed to lose weight and exercise.	sv	I think that is so wonderful.

sd	So, he gets excited when he sees us put on our shoes, our walking shoes.	ba	I bet.

aa	Yes.	sd	like when I first started, it, you know, that was the hardest thing was to get ready and get out there.

^2	Making time for it.	sd	But now if I haven't done it in a day or two or something, I really notice that I haven't done it in a ...

b	Yes.	sd	You know. And I like the time because my kids, sometimes they come with me

sd	I do, too.	sd	I know enough of the people that if anything ever happened I could go to a home around this block area.

b	Right.	sd	So it's not real dangerous,

sd	I never do either. Even if I have my dog with me.	b	Yeah.

aa	You know, it's nice to have another person there,	aa	Yeah.

sd	and sometimes it's my kids.	sv	Well, I think that's great.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I found real quick that wasn't for me.

sd	I did the dance step when I lived up in Michigan	b	Uh huh .

sd	and I got to the point I dreaded going in.	b	Yeah,

sd	and it doesn't cost anything .	aa	Right ,

aa	Yes.	sd	So I like that.

sd	That's the one time in the day my husband and I can get away and talk without having the kids jump in and ...	b	Uh huh.

aa	Yep.	sv	They can wait until you get back home.

aa	Yep.	sv	Well, I think that's great .

sd	that's all I do, too.	b	Okay.

qw	on a scale of one to ten where do you stand and why?	sd	Well, I guess I stand on, probably ten for no, restrictions.

aa	true.	sd	and, I was raised, you know, hunting all the time,

b	Right.	sd	And, it scares me a little bit to think that they would begin restricting gun control to the point where, eventually we may not be able to have that right any more.

sd	But because I know that's not going to happen, then I have to probably right up there about an eight .	aa	Yeah,

sv	and that's basically what the gun control would end up being.	aa	I think so,

aa	Well, it's very true.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's the ones that are going out and stealing it.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, they'd have to be almost world wide, which we know would never ever happen.	aa	Yeah,

sv	some idiot would come out and sell it to somebody on the street to make a quick buck.	aa	Yeah,

sv	we maybe want to overthrow the government .	sv	Well, the way things are going.

qo	what do you think of this, law that they're putting into effect that you have to wait X number of days before you can, carry the gun, or you know, actually purchase the gun?	sd	Well, you know, they introduced some gun control back when I was a teenager, I believe, in terms of, every gun you bought had to be licensed, I believe.

b	Yes.	sd	And, you know, that didn't bother me, too much,

qy	have you participated in anything like that?	na	Well a little bit,

sd	and you can just take it up there and drop it off.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And everybody up there looks pleased with themselves when they're taking their stuff in like they're doing something good to, help the earth, I guess.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	like yesterday I was tell him, you're supposed to squeeze the plastic jugs before you take them up there.	br	You're supposed to what.

sd	Every time he turns around I'm giving him some new rule, where you're supposed to you know, like collapse the plastic jugs. Instead of taking them up there solid.	qw	But what are you supposed to do with them.

sd	We like to just put our newspapers in a paper bag, you know, and then carry them up there that way.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we have to bring the paper bags back every time. Because they won't take them.	b	Yeah.

qrr	or does someone pick them up?	sd	we usually you know, collect quite a bit

sd	our aluminum cans, we like to take them to one of the places where they pay you for them.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, we generally don't have those to do.

qy	but. Do you, have any ideas on anything that would make,	sd	You know, they charge you, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I know a lot of people it would solve the convenience problem if they had curbside pickup

b	Right.	sv	they charged you by weight of how much trash you were actually sending to a land fill.

ba	that would be a good idea.	sv	that might be a better way to do it.

b	Yeah.	sv	And then people would know that it was going to cost them money to not sort their trash.

sv	that would be a real good motivation for people.	sv(^q)	You know, because then it would make monetary sense to them, you know, to say, hey, you know, if I just spend the time to sort this out where this stuff can be recycled then I don't have to pay for them hauling it off.

sd	my father was telling me about some program he read about where like you buy your garbage bag from the city,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so how ever many bags of garbage you throw away, that's how many you have to pay for.	b	yeah

sd	They are talking about going to curbside pickup in our city .	qw	Where do you live?

sd	Rowlett, Texas.	bk	okay.

qy	Do you know where that is?	ny	Yes.

sv	Although, I think a lot of those programs can operate at about a break even point, without charging people.	aa	It seems like they would be able to.

sv	I guess it just depends on how they manage it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The center that they've got now where you take your stuff in I think that should be making some money. Since they just have to hire someone to man it a few hours a week.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I guess they sell everything to some waste company that comes and gets it.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I don't know anybody that takes that.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I think it's a good reason to quit buying it.	sd	now I didn't know that,

sd	that's what we buy the most of, unless we're going on a trip or something where we want to,	b	Yeah.

fc	It was good talking to you.	fc	Okay.

fc	bye.	fc	All right,

qw	where you at?	sd	I'm in Rome, New York.

br^m	In where Rome , New York?	na^r	Rome, New York,

sd	He's reminding me of where I live,	b^m	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, they're trying to reinstate it

b	Yes.	sd	but the state legislatures are more and more coming to supporting it.

sv	but, eth , and ethics, socially and ethically I think it's a good idea, in certain crimes.	aa	I would agree, with that even more,

sd	and these people are getting out like three to five years before they're even suppose to be considered,	b	Right.

qh	or is the world really that rotten .	no	I don't know,

aa	I know.	sv	it's a hard question,

sd	and they passed it, which basically means without an F B I check any person here in this state over twenty one can get a gun .	sd	Here in New York it's a lot harder than that,

ba	that's good.	sd	it takes almost six months to get, handgun permit, in this state.

ba	that's great.	sd	you have to have, a police investigation,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know, because a friend of mine wanted to get one and listed me as a reference 

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know it,

sd	but in Florida, in the state of Washington when they had the Ted Bundy case	b	Right.

sd	but it was in the, I think the second or third quarter of last year, nineteen ninety	b	Right.

sv	but I mean there should be more cases like that where I might be too cold too, but they flip a switch,	aa	Yeah,

h	I don't know,	sd	well, and the thing with Bundy was though he escaped

sd	So many times.	b	yeah

b^m	Yeah.	sd	and did it again

sd	he's not the only one, you know,	aa	No.

sd	and they changed all the facts that they said it was true	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they buried her alive	ba	God.

sv(^q)	and you're thinking that's nice.	ba	Great.

sv	but it does serve as a pun , definite, pun , you know, lasting punish ,	aa	Surely, there's and end to, the situation.

sv	in that particular instance,	b	Right.

sd	and we happen to live in Dallas which is extremely crime, ridden,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and when you're gone from some place for about six years as we were, you really begin to see, just how problematic just living is, even suburban, no matter where you are,	b	Right.

qy^d	you're in, Rome, New York,	^2	Rome, New York,

qy	and, is that like near Albany or Syracuse,	sd	it's about,

qw	what type of area is that,	sd	It's more rural,

qy	is that in term,	nd	it use to be use to have a lot of heavy industry,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's kind of,

b	Sure.	sd	and, now the Air Force is the largest employer in the, area

qw	How would, how is the situation in there in terms of crime and, and things that would,	sd	it, you know, you still have more drug problems and typical, small city type problems,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I don't know that there's a real,

qy^d	Not the harsh criminality, that you find in,	nn	no

sd	they believe that, if they kill somebody, you know, tit for tat and, deed for deed that, that does something,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, they really are over, crowded,	b	Right.

sd	I don't think they have capital punishment there.	sd	I think Penn , Pennsylvania may have just reenacted it

ad	so, well, we'll forgive each other .	b	Yeah.

sd	and I can't, I haven't lived there in twenty, years	b	Right.

sv	that's a different subject, altogether	b	Right.

sv	you and I think are honest and candid because we could do it in this, vehicle,	b	Right.

sv(^q)	but I think everybody if they were touched by it would say, if they had any sense of rage that could be brought out, I think every human does, } I think they'd say, yeah,	b	Sure.

sv(^q)	do it if somebody in my family or if it happened it me, you know,	b	Yeah,

sd	and when you see how many repeat offenders there are, check fraud cases where they go to jail for five to ten years and, rapist getting their hand, just slapped, you know, and how it is based on the judge and if the time of day that the court is in session, you know, all these, i , intangible things	b	Yeah.

sd	you wouldn't want to be a criminal either because you wouldn't know what you're getting,	b	Right.

sd	methods of capital punishment I have no opinions on that either	b	Well, I, yeah,

qo	how about the injection,	b	yeah,

qy	is that suppose to be.	ny	yeah,

qy^d	it's more that don't have it,	na	I think,

qy	isn't that correct.	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know if they've used it since they've reinstated it

sd	but I haven't been back here long enough to realize whether or not, if they've done it in the last,	b	Right.

qo	so, what do you consider the most important benefit besides salary?	no	Boy, I don't know.

^2	That week,	na	or this month, well, there's a couple of changes to the, our health plan

sd	I'm a graduate student that,	bk	okay.

sd	I don't have that many benefits per se .	b	Yes,

sv	I think health insurance is real, real important. I've, I've, I've discovered.	b	Yeah.

sd	they have a mandatory, they have what they call the mandatory portion of their health insurance	b	Yeah.

sd	but I still pay them a hundred dollars a semester for, mandatory.	b	Right,

sd	I'd rather that went to something else.	b	and, yeah,

sd	I don't, you know,	b	yeah,

ba	wow.	b	Yeah,

sd	I think she gets, you know, about two weeks a year, I guess	b	Yeah.

sd	They, you know, usually let her,	sv	that's the thing is how flexible they are for comp time kinds of kinds of things

b	Yeah.	sd	That's why it hasn't made all that much difference is because with the civil service, that you could take your vacation in increments of one hour

b	really.	sd	and, but, there wasn't, anything as far as comp time,

b	Yeah.	sv	whereas, here things are free enough that, the actual vacation time per year probably isn't that much different,

sv	well, that's a that's reasonable, I think.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	my assumption is that, that will not include my doctor since, he keeps real busy without having to,

^2	Weigh all sorts of other things.	b	Yeah.

sd	and in other cases it's actually bad because it winds up people, you know, they have much less of a choice in who they can use and stuff like that	sv	Well, and I think in the, in the much bigger picture than, to some extent hospitals and doctors have some, fixed amount

b	Uh huh.	sv	and the added costs get passed on to you,

b	Right.	sv	my, one of the phrases I use is that it's moving towards, private socialized medicine. That, in terms of the negatives of always heard in terms of socialized medicine, you have no choice on who you go to for a doctor and things like that, where it's the government that decides,

sv	Least off, who decides.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	h	but, I, I don't know,

sv	You want to know that, that when you pick a doctor, you know, you could pick one who you could have some sort of a feeling about.	b	Yeah.

ad	Why don't you tell me about your choir.	b	Oh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Lot of them are former music teachers or currently teaching.

sd	and then he can play, which is kind of interesting.	b	yeah.

sv	I think it's because he's always heard music in our home since he was a baby.	b	Uh huh.

sd	my husband and my other son, who's eleven just got through singing in a musical here, in the community at Music Man.	bh	they did?

sd^e	and that's lots of fun.	qw	How did, How did they get involved in that?

sd	It was the Plano Repertory Theatre.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and my son played one of the children in a band.	ba	how fun.

sd	and my daughter takes piano lessons, too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we get the T V off and just have some nice quiet music.	b	uh huh,

ny	Uh huh.	qw	And, who do you have her, or him, take it from?

sd	I have him take from a friend of mine who teaches Suzuki. Which is an auditory type learning experience.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You listen to the music and then learn to play it by hearing the intervals and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess he's about two and a half in his real understanding of things.	b	Oh.

sd(^q)	we went, wow	b	Uh huh.

^q	we better have him s , do something. You know, educationally.	b	Yeah.

sd	My husband and I love to go to the musicals downtown, though.	br	Pardon me?

sd	So, my husband and I love to go to the musicals when they come into town into Dallas.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that's great.	sd	So I wasn't sure when to start her.

sv(^q)	and you're like God, I really want you to do it.	b	Uh huh .

qh	You know.	b	Yeah.

ad	if she acts like she wants to or says she wants to maybe you could have her take some for a while and see how she likes it.	aa	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was something easily forgotten.

sd	That's like me.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, it can get expensive	b	Yeah.

sv	that's for sure.	b	Yeah.

sd	my friend is very generous in letting us have my children, do the Suzuki method without paying a lot out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it's been good for our family.	qy	Well, as a piano teacher, do you have any feelings for kids who come from a Suzuki method,

ng	I don't have any Suzuki students.	qw^d	I was wondering how,

sv	or, you know, in the aspect that we're telling kids that this is what is suggested for you to do.	b	Right.

sv	And, as far as a high school course, I could see it as, maybe a sociology course to where a student would get credits if they were to be involved with some kind of community type of program	b	Uh huh.

sv	and to me, that's fine to have a student do that for like or even a year	b	Uh huh.

sv	but to tell them that they had to do two years thereafter, post high school, of community service, I'm not quite sure if that's appropriate for anybody to be telling somebody they have to do.	sv	Well, that's a good idea to have it as a study program for school where it be more on a voluntary basis as opposed to, mandatory.

aa	Exactly.	b	Yeah.

b	Right .	sv	anything shouldn't be mandatory, other than, I guess, like, when you come to paying taxes or something like that.

aa	Exactly.	b	Yeah.

sv	You have to do so much as far as in community service now.	b	Right.

sv	If they were, you know, abusive type of situation perhaps then they would have to work with the victims of abuse.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I could see that working in , you know, cases where it might be young teenagers getting in trouble with law and teaching him that there is a whole community that is effected when they strike out and do their crimes or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so I could see that as something that might occur in the court system for those that are troubled,	aa	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think, us being taxpayers, we pay for, people that's in jail or in trouble anyway.

aa	We sure do.	sv	So they should be programs set up by the government that could utilize those forms in different areas .

b	Uh huh.	aa	And I agree wholeheartedly.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	aa	because like you say, is a lot of crimes and stuff or misdemeanors

b	Uh huh.	qh	so why have someone in jail for a year or two for a misdemeanor.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and then when they get out, they,

^q	but I didn't get any rehabilitation	b	Uh huh.

sv	you know. But then again, those that have physically assaulted somebody, that's extremely tough to put them into some kind of program out in the community if they're of a violent sort and to say ,	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	well, about nursing homes, and older people.	b	Yeah.

sd	my husband has a grandmother that lives with his mother	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I, help with her and bathe her and feed her.	b	Right.

sv	It's really difficult to be a caretaker twenty four hours a day.	aa	it's very difficult

sd	she has Alzheimer's and does not remember, a lot if anything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so she asks the same questions over and over again. Which is not you know, unrealistic.	b	Right.

sd	and so you just have to try and be patient and answer them again or just answer another question.	b	Yeah.

^q	and just come over and visit grandma because she gets very disoriented.	b	Yeah,

sd	She's ninety two.	sd	see my father is ninety two

sv	I think that's wonderful.	sd	but you know whenever something happens to one of them then, I don't know what I'll do up there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I just know too many horror stories about nursing homes

sd	I was just going to say.	sd	They're in Missouri

b	Yeah.	sv	And, it's tragic that, you know, when people live so long that they, really don't have a place to go.

sd	but they can go and reside there like little apartments, places in between places.	b	Right.

sd	And I like that idea if they can handle it themselves.	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah .	sd	So, I mean, he's from that old depression era

b	Yeah.	sd	I would imagine that if something happens, I'll move one of them or bot , you know, in with me.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I know a lot of people have said that and then find out how tough it is

^2	Nursing homes.	sd	But I just don't know how much you can see when you go for a,

^2	Visit.	sv	I think you just have to drop in all unexpectedly a lot.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And so many people when they put people in the nurses home, they never see them.

aa	That's right.	sv	They never go to see them.

aa	That's right.	sd	I've talked to many, owners of places and say that nobody even,

sv	You know, I think nursing homes are, some are good	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have to say that.	b	Right.

sv	But for the most part I truly believe that the parents would be better if they were with the children.	aa	I do too.

aa^r	right.	sd	because I know Governor Richards is really upset about what she's finding in the nursing homes, regulation in Texas

sv	You know, I think it's very difficult in the first place to make that choice to have them go there.	b	Right.

sv	And then if you find out that they are not having good care, you know, I'm sure that it is just, you know, you'd pull them out of there so fast.	b	Oh.

sv	it's a very, very hard decision I think.	aa	It is a tough decision

aa	I think that's right,	b	Yeah.

sv	and especially if you're not a person that is like a medical person maybe or something that the person needs medical treatment.	b	Right.

sd	and she had a nursing person come in like three times a week to help him out.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And that might be a partial solution, or something.	b	Right.

sd	But, I personally am for the trying it at home caretaker part before I think I'd ever,	sd	I would hope we could do that, and then go from there.

sv	Well, I think we kind of are along the same lines.	sv	We've covered a little bit

fc^m	Good to hear from you.	fc	Have a good,

fc	Have a lovely day.	fc	Have a good lif ,

sd	and there wasn't a tax on food that we purchased at the grocery store and things.	b	Huh uh.

sd	because I'm sort of feeling like we're getting a better deal here , than what I was accustomed to.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think, I guess, what I feel is that most people, they don't like to pay taxes because they feel like there's some people that aren't paying their fair share.	aa	Yeah.

sv	And, that makes you feel bad.	sv	People that can really influence the government have all the money to throw.

sv	And that's not fair, to me.	aa	No.

qo	How do you feel?	b	Well, yeah.

b	Huh uh.	sd	we live here also,

b	Huh uh.	sv	and that it's mostly sales tax,

b	Huh uh.	sd	I've lived in Texas most of my life.

ba	no.	sd	And we're like .

b	Huh uh.	sd	So, I mean, that was kind of different

b	Huh uh.	sd	so I then, have also done tax returns in the past for other people when I worked for an accounting firm.

b	Huh uh.	sv	And, you know, it is kind of sad to see how the people that have the resources to hire somebody and have the money to spend to put there money in places, they don't have to pay taxes.

b	Right.	sv	Or to buy something that loses money so that they can offset the income that they get or whatever.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, you know, I can understand why the rich people don't want to pay, you know, a large percent

b	Huh uh.	sv	because, you know, that's not really fair, either.

aa	Yes.	sv	it's kind of depressing sometimes, I think.

sv	and so, I think, you know, our salaries are a little bit higher because we have to pay taxes on it.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, but some of the people that make a great deal of money and everything I wish that they would, I guess, because I'm not one of them , I wish that they would, you know, realize that they couldn't make this kind of money,	aa	Well, yeah,

sv	they couldn't live that kind of life style anywhere else.	b	Yeah.

sd	even if they made that kind of money, there's some countries that have like, fifty percent income tax, you know, that have, socialized medicines and things that,	b	Yeah.

sv	but they need to pay for it, too, because they couldn't do it somewhere else.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, that's what I've always heard.	ng	They must have enough other stuff because the way the oil has been the last few years, that really has not been, the industry that is bringing in the money for the taxes, I wouldn't think.

sv	There's something about, the industry in the state, That,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, they would have, so many community outdoor theaters and, And like, community country club type things.	b	Huh uh.

sd	and I really liked that.	sv	why people decided to expect certain services,

b	Huh uh.	sv	Then, they don't really think they should pay for them, maybe.

sd	but, I'm willing to pay for that for my children.	b	Yeah.

sd	and having seen other countries, I'd much rather live here and pay taxes, than live somewhere else and not .	b	Huh uh.

fc	it was nice.	fc^t	I need, I've never initiated one of these phone calls.

fc^t	and so, you get luck of the draw	fc	Oh.

fc	anyway, well, good luck to you.	fc	Okay,

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

o	Okay .	qy	So, do you have the long,

ng	well, we probably have about three months, approximately.	qy	Do do you do your own gardening?

ny^r	Uh huh.	b	Do you.

sd	but we do have a garden.	sd	See I got mine in,

sd	I wish I could be doing that .	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's pretty hot down here during the Summer,

b	Right.	sd	but, you know, we don't do too much during the Summer, as far as tomatoes and stuff, like that.

qy^d	You almost have, to get started pretty early probably. I guess,	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But then I have to wait for my,

b	Uh huh.	sd	as soon as we're, sure we're not going to have another freeze, go ahead finish it.

sv	You've had more freezing or this, yeah, Winter, I think.	aa	Yeah.

sv	More bad weather.	sd	but every once in a while, we get a freeze around the middle of April,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's pretty tough.

qrr	or are you retired	nn	No.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm only forty years old.

sd	but he really isn't, real crazy about gardening.	sd	I really enjoy it,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and I, burned my grass off here in the last couple of days getting ready to start to the Spring season, and see if I can grow me another nice lawn,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I usually have a pretty nice lawn,

sd	and and I like my garden too .	aa	Yeah,

sd	but we planted corn last year too, which takes quite a bit of space	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it really damaged the corn	b	yeah.

sd	so we didn't get too much corn, last year.	sd	We're going through that,

b	uh huh.	sd	but what I did with my garden, is I have a two by six frame that's five by ten.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I put, like, a black plastic,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I put that down,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	so I waste it up and down there a couple of times,

ba	that's great.	sd	and it's pretty nice.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	Especially during the Summer, it keeps everything wet, instead of wilting.

sd	and other years we've tried newspapers	b	Oh.

sd	but we do our watering from our spring.	qy^d	you have a spring,

ny	Yeah.	ba	how nice.

sd	and, my husband set up a pump that runs,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then it stops,	ba	that's, that's pretty nice.

sd	and we use that to water our garden , with	qy^g	But you actually enjoy it,

na^r	I do.	bh	Do you?

na	I love it,	sv	Get out there on your hands and knees, and crawl around.

sd	I'd rather be doing that, than housework .	ba	I can imagine.

sd	I think our cabbages, and broccolis and that we have more trouble with, that type of thing, with the,	qy	With the worms?

ny	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

qrr	or do you, use insecticides?	ny	Yeah,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	but, sometimes I can't manage.

sd	it's just the it's just a lawn .	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you eat any of them?	nn	No,

qy	well, did, does your wife ever make, a hot bacon dressing, like for, salad?	nn	No.

sd	and it goes real good on dandelions.	bh	Really.

ny	Uh huh.	sd	I've never eaten dandelions

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I've never tried any dandelions just to eat.

ad	use the greens, if you get them when they're young and tender, you know, before they have grown too, too tall,	b	Yeah.

sd	because they do get a little stringy.	aa	All right.

sd	But, they're kind of fun to try,	b	Yeah.

ad	and then throw them in with the rest of your salad sometimes.	aa	I'll try that.

b^r	Yeah.	aa	I sure will .

sd	so, wasn't allowed to run a lawn mower,	b	Oh.

sd	so, it takes about four hours to cut our grass.	ba	Yow.

sd	but, I'm getting on to it,	bf	So you all are into, so you all are into the lawn, big time,

aa	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	then I have a pretty nice backyard,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you know, I've got enough room to throw horseshoes. You know, couple of other ,

sv	a lot of people don't have that much space even.	aa	No,

bf	So you have all the conveniences of, a city,	aa	Yeah.

bf	and the country also.	sd	I have the room outside I need,

sv	Well, you never have enough room do you think. Especially if your into any hobbies or anything.	aa	No.

br	Rolly Polly what?	sd	Rolly Polly bugs.

qy	Is it a bug, You mean?	sd	They look like they've got,

qy	A worm?	ny	Yeah.

qy	A cutworm?	nn	No.

qy	Not a grub worm?	nn	no.

bk	Oh.	sd	I don't know what they call them.

sd	I'm trying to think of what they are, what kind, they could be.	sd	I, I don't know.

sd	You find them under bricks usually, and that.	b	Yeah,

sd	They're not a slug.	aa	No.

aa^r	Yeah.	sd	and these are just,

qy^g	They were not hard are they?	nn	No.

qy	Are they a hard worm?	nn	No.

b	They're not a hard .	sd	They're like a, water bug, of sorts,

qy	 are they black then?	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	But they roll up.	ny	Yeah.

sd	I can't think of what kind they would be.	sd	When you touch them, they roll up.

sd	I'm no help on that, then. Because, I can't think of what they are. What they would be.	sd	But, I'm plagued with those.

sv	I think you have a lot more insects down there even than what we have.	sv	You know, I think it's a big problem because we're in more of a tempered zone.

sd	I know, my brother had trouble with fire ants, and that even.	b	You know.

sv	And they be can be a real dickens.	sv	And, you, spray in one part of your lawn,

aa^r	Uh huh.	sv	So you got to, spray your whole yard,

aa^r	Yeah.	sv	and your, your neighbor gets them,

sv	you keep trading them .	aa	Yeah.

sd	So, we have daffodils, here in the house because of the cut flowers,	b	Yeah.

sd	but they're just beginning to come out and bud.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	They sure are, pretty,

b	uh huh.	sd	I like them ,

sv	they're such a nice bright early Spring, color.	b	yeah.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and they bloom in, you know, late June, mid, July.

sv	And they're, beautiful too.	aa	Yeah,

sv^r	They're beautiful.	sd	they're nice and green, you know,

ba	my.	sd	They come up real pretty, every year, no problem.

sd	We won't have too much here for another couple of months yet.	qy	Is it still pretty cool up there?

sd^e	it's raining today.	qy	Well, do you all have a,

sd	We really didn't plant anything.	b	Yeah.

sd	I suppose maybe you call it crabgrass even.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I still have the old standby crabgrass here and there,

qy^d	It's probably, very pretty.	ny	Yeah.

oo^t	We could talk about my favorite subject .	qy^g	Cooking and food,

nd	Food .	qo	What do you like to cook?

sd	So, I am just trying to perfect some things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was horrible .	ba	dear.

sd	I don't know if the cake was horrible or if I made it horrible.	ar	probably not.

ba	Hey .	sd	And, it is wonderful.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it looks like it is a wheat bread.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, it is just regular

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you let it rise

ba	Wow.	sd	and they are so easy to do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	seems like every time that we have a dinner party, or that we are going some place where everybody is suppose to bring something and they have had my rolls before. They always ask me to, bring those rolls .

qy	Do you use celery seed in your tuna fish?	nn	No

sd	Was for tuna fish.	ba	how funny.

sd	Celery and onion and,	sd	Well, see I have always used celery, I mean, I have used celery before.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I never used the celery seed in it.

b	Yeah.	qw	Well, what else do you put in it besides the celery seed.

sd	and I use like, Miracle Whip salad dressing instead of the actual mayonnaise because I really don't like the Helman's Mayonnaise.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But if you use salad dressing with you know, kind of, I guess a tart taste. Then it comes out real good.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I feel so silly	sd	See, I have never put bell pepper in tuna fish either.

b	Yeah.	bh	Isn't that funny?

b	Right.	sd	The standard old tuna fish.

sd	I just did not have those things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I would have put eggs in there also.	bh	But isn't that interesting?

^2	Celery seed.	sd	I will have to try that.

qr	Do you use a regular mayonnaise or, The Miracle Whip.	sd	Sometimes I do

b	Yeah.	sd	And sometimes, if I am using, like, regular mayonnaise, to spice it up a little bit I will use a little bit of mustard with it.

sd	I do that also.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Just to put a little zing in it.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But enough to, make it have a little bit more flavor.

sd	Anything barbecued I will eat.	sd	I like, to barbecue baby back ribs.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you, just cook them very, very slowly in the oven.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it is not hard to cook, like some meals are.

b	Yeah.	sv	And of course, it is messy to eat.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I make lasagna from scratch

sd	I make that once in a while.	sd	and so, sometimes, I am requested to make that.

aa	It is not really, once you have all the ingredients	b	Uh huh.

sv	it is just the layering really. And not breaking the, pasta.	b	Yeah.

sv	That is the hardest part probably.	sd	Then, I have a wonderful recipe for strawberry pie.

qy	Do you make cheesecake?	ny	uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But then you use this sort of,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so, it is sort of like in a way. using cheese cake,

qy	Well, did you get a chance to watch any of the games?	nn	no,

bk	okay .	qy^g	Michael Jordan's on Chicago Bulls isn't he.

ny	Yeah.	qy	did he get hurt last night

sd	and he was out there playing.	bk	okay.

sd	I think he only had like eight points at the end of the first quarter,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they thought that was big news.	b	yeah.

qy	who do you normally pull for, the Mavericks or,	nn	No,

bh	yeah?	ny^m	Yeah.

sv	because that's just dollars right out of the franchise.	aa	Sure is.

sd	Now I, I've always been pulling for the Lakers for a long time.	b	yeah.

sd	And, not just because they always win,	sv	They're consistent.

sd	but, when they had, Akeem anybody who was old as that playing that well, you know, I just kind of had to go with them.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it also helps when they were winning .	aa	Yeah.

sd	I will take a look at the individual score, you know, in the individual stance in the N B A	b	Uh huh.

sd	usually hardly any, anybody in the top twenty except for, like, Magic	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think they do really play much better as a team than they do, each one, you know, individually at their spot .	aa	Yeah,

sv	and I think they're really giving them a run for their money.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Did he get hurt again?	na	his back is bad all the time now, I think.

sv	I guess it's tough to play that many games and still stay healthy.	aa	Yeah,

sv	He ought to have his own bed come along with him, you know .	aa	Uh huh.

sd	jeez, it was like, thirty five baskets in thirty seconds or something like that from three point range.	b	Uh huh.

fe	Unbelievable.	b	Yeah.

qy	did you ever play much basketball?	ng	Not much.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

sd	It really is for a noncontact sport, quote, unquote.	aa	Yeah,

aa	really .	sd	I figured,

sv	Some of those guys got pretty funny looking, eye wear.	aa	Yeah.

ba	Man.	sd	Well, it's, I was looking in the paper for something on it

sd	and they were all the basketball players there to play the Cavaliers	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they were standing in water that was like six foot, you know,	b^m	Six foot,

sd	it looked like something out of Africa	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	he says I weigh about, two hundred and forty pounds	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	but he says it's not much when you stretch it over seven foot one.	aa	Yeah,

sv	But, he's got to be way up there.	aa	yeah.

sv	God. that's a lot .	b	Yeah.

sv	That's a lot of guy coming down on you.	b	Uh huh.

qw	who's supposed to have the, the best, draft picks?	sd^r	It doesn't say,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, I guess they have, they, they, have a lottery on it.

bh	yeah?	sd	It must not be according to how they did during the year.

sd	went down there a couple years on the day of the draft	b	Uh uh.

sd	They usually have, you know, a video, highlights of the season, you know, and basically kind of walks you through what happened to the Mavs and who they traded for and how they did and a lot of good footage, both the good and the bad	b	Uh huh.

qw	so who do you thinks going to win the playoffs?	no	I don't know,

sd	shoot, I can't remember them all now.	sd	Utah, Portland, Boston and Detroit.

aa^r	yeah.	b	Okay.

fe	Jeez.	sv	I think Boston will win.

bh	Think so?	ny	Yeah.

sv	those guys really hang tough.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you ever been up there to Boston Garden?	nn	no,

sv	Basketball's gotten to be a lot of fun.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I do a fair amount of cooking.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it, I like to prepare chicken, that seems to please everybody, pasta or a casserole.	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about you?	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, that's about the way I prepare most fish.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, if you are looking for a French recipe, that was good.	b	Sesame seeds and bread crumbs.

b^m	Sesame seeds and bread crumbs.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, my husband liked it.	b	Yeah.

sv	unfortunately scallops are one of the more expensive, fish items.	aa	Right,

qo	How about you?	ny	yeah,

qy	Do you have any particular places you like going?	na	there's a restaurant called String Bean on Spring Valley and Central.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like that,

sd	I have been there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I do not think it's a chain.	aa	Right,

b	Oh.	sd	So, I do not really like, you know, chili places or, what is it, Judge Roy Bean's,

sv	and I always, feel like the home cooking places, are the healthiest meals.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, I tend to have chicken fried steak when I go to them.	b	Right,

qw	how was it?	sd	it was great.

b	Uh huh.	qh	You know.

sd	And my father teases me about gourmet cooking. Which is not always true,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and the thing about experimenting with cooking or anything else, is that some of the experiments fail.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I was, sorry I did not have ice cream to fall back on.	b	Yeah.

ba	my that's ambitious.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, then he tried to made grapefruit citron one time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's, supposed to be candy.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, it did not turn out very well,

sd	One of the things I do not make is dessert.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And that's why when I did this experiment for the company we had about three weeks ago, it was just a total fiasco.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but that was a fiasco.	qy^g	Well, you have to put eggs and everything, don't you.

ny	yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

sd	so I can live without dessert for the most part.	b	Uh huh.

qrr	or do you cook for others?	sd	Mostly, I just cook for myself.

sd	Well, when I was single, I think my favorite meal was a baked potato.	b	Uh huh.

aa	yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	or if I had a little cheddar cheese, sometimes I would grate that up.	b	Yeah,

sv	And, it's amazingly satisfying.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	but it was satisfying.	aa	yeah,

sd	so I ate very simply.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, I must be a frustrated chemist or something like that.	b	Right.

sv	Cause cooking is a little bit like being in a chemistry lab.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and have an explosion.	sv	Fill them up

sv	Sometimes it blows up anyway.	aa	Yeah.

sd	and it does turn to toffee inside the can.	b	yeah .

sd	And I had to have my, my, my dad sort of entertain him for , for awhile while my mother and I scrambled to clean everything up.	b	Right.

sd	I just remember how embarrassing it was.	b	Yeah.

sd	just that one time.	b	Yeah.

sd	and , well, it was a memorable evening anyway.	b	Right.

qy	are you old enough to know about the war?	na	just barely.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sv	you are old enough.	aa	Yeah.

sv	But it was on the fringe.	aa	just, yeah,

sd	If I had been a male or in Israel, I would have been number two.	bh	Really? .

ny	Yeah	ba	Wowie!

sd	So I learned a lesson in gender .	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess I think it was, not that great that we were in there, in terms of for how long it lasted.	b	Right.

sd	You know.	b	Uh huh.

qo	What do you think?	aa	Well, I think it is, basically the same way.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Because, the whole thing that was bad about Vietnam, it was no different from Iraq.

aa	yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sv	And in full faction,	aa	Right.

sd	But I was a little bit older before I realized just how long it had been going on since L B J and	b	Right.

sd	so in terms of when you were in school, I am sure that it was, you know, the majority of your high school and junior high years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	one of the things I did not like was the weapons, I can't even say it, the weaponry systems that they used.	b	Yeah.

sv	it just did not seem that, I do not know, technically we knew what we were doing either.	b	Right.

sv(^q)	and you would think, you know, just, how could the government or the Pentagon, or whomever is in charge there been so careless.	aa	Yeah,

^2	Conscious,	sv	I mean back then it was not commonly known that saccharin was bad for you and all these other things that people that people know about themselves now.

sv	monetarily too, I just do not think we have done enough for the, Vietnamese people as a whole. in South Vietnam, in general, in helping them restore themselves.	b	Uh huh .

sd	You know, and I don't know if it is because there are not any oil fields there .	b	Yeah.

sv	But I just think it is kind of a shame that, you still hear things about the children that are orphans there	b	Yeah.

sv	my main opinion would be w , we should not have done it.	b	Right.

sd	Well, that is what I know about the Vietnam War .	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I work for a government contractor.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So at least some of the guys I work with rather are veterans.

qy	Vietnam?	na	And, from Vietnam.

ba	Jeez,	sd	And, I have not talked to any of them that were not, you know, glad that they went or rather thought that the reason they went was a good one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, most of them are very strongly that the reason for America to be there was a good one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They just felt that the way America backed them up was not at all right.

qy^d	In terms of the personal.	ny	Yeah.

sv	The bitterness is more on a personal level than on a,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because the Congress would not approve, you know.

sd	I mean, because I know, in nineteen sixty three, I mean I was nine years old, when Kennedy was shot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But then as I got older and studied in school, I realized it was even going on before that.	b	Yeah.

sv(^q)	You know, and you think to yourself, my goodness, Eisenhower .	aa	Yeah,

sd	but it is that kind of idea.	b	Uh huh.

sd	like a friend of mine called it the yellow ribbon syndrome.	b	Right,

sd	They were not given the,	b	right,

fc	But thanks for talking to me.	fc	Yes.

fc	is that where you are at?	fc	No,

fc	That is beautiful where you are at.	fc	Yeah,

fc	Are you a native of there?	fc	pretty much,

fc	but at least the humidity is, below forty percent, which makes it kind of like Phoenix.	fc	Yeah.

fc	Really?	fc	little bit cooler, like eighty nine.

fc	well you are not missing too much then .	fc	Yeah.

fc	Well, take it easy.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qy	should young Americans be forced to do a year of service?	sv	I don't think they should be forced,

sv	I think something like the Peace Corps is a bit harsh.	b	Yeah,

sv	No kids,	aa	I think so, too.

sv	I think it's a little harsh to say that they should have to spend a year or two.	b	Yeah.

sv	and no one just realizes it.	aa	Your right,

sd	and then to become an Eagle Scout you have to do a yearlong project.	aa	Right,

sv	I, I, now I think people generally volunteer.	b	Yeah.

sv	That there's no problem with getting them to, do stuff.	aa	I do, too.

sv	So, I guess if we all give five hours a week or five percent of our salary we could,	b	Yeah,

sv	or just gave, or, or, or just to, force kids to serve for, parents, I guess.	aa	Yeah .

sv	Substitute.	b	Right.

sv	No problem.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they clean it up.

sd	I've seen that.	sd	And keep it clean.

sd	they, just started trying to get something together l , like, like that around here for, from the community because, we had a big ice storm very recently.	b	Oh.

qy^d	You sound like you're in the south somewhere.	ny	Yeah,

sd	I'm in, New York.	bk^m	New York.

sd	Upstate New York,	ba	gosh.

sv	Long way,	b	Yeah .

sd	And, basically, in our city, I'm in Rochester which is, right upstate. } Half of the trees in the city, are no good anymore.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Everything is just down everywhere.	b	Oh.

sd	You know, we had three hundred thousand people without power.	ba	Golly.

sd	and there are still people who don't have power.	bh	Are you serious? .

sd	and there are still something like ten thousand people without power.	ba	my God,

sd	Funny thing is the national news how they covered it.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, and we've been in a state of emergency you know, for ten or eleven days.	ba	Lord.

sd	and, they're you know, putting out ads now for people to come volunteer, or to have their organizations come, volunteer to help clean up the streets.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	and, all, a lot of older folks need help getting, their yards cleaned out because they can't afford to pay anyone	b	Right.

sd	and they, and they certainly can't carry it themselves	b	Right.

ba	that's great.	aa	Yeah,

qy	And is that supported by all donations to the church and so forth	ny	yeah.

ba	That's real nice.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	ba	So it's real neat.

qy^d	and I bet it gives you a real good feeling to be doing that.	sd	it's like I say,

b	Yeah.	sv	and you know, if you can do any a little bit, it helps,

ba	that's, that's real good.	b	Yeah.

sd	and some did elderly visits,	b	Yeah.

sd	And I'm convinced that, that at least twenty five percent of our school participated in some sort of group. You know, activity like that.	ba	Gosh.

sd	my wife was big in that .	sv	that's a lot of kids, though.

sd	it was a small school .	sv	well, still you know, that's a good chunk of kids.

sd	There was Big Brother, Big Sister,	b	Yeah.

sd	they had a dance marathon for charity or, to support that, group.	b	Yeah.

sd	Such that, you know, lots of people got involved that way.	ba	That's great.

b	Yeah.	ba	That's great.

sd	I think it should be completely optional	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, the Peace Corps doesn't pay very well. You know?	b	Right.

sd	I have a, a friend whose or daughter is in the Peace Corps in Guatemala right now.	b	Oh.

sd	and, you know, I know I could never afford to go visit a kid in Guatemala.	sd	I couldn't either.

sv	and, and the kid's certainly not making much money.	aa	Right,

sv	So I can see where that, may be a problem.	aa	Yeah.

aa	I don't,	sd	I wish I could do something like that,

sd	and I'll do my little community service throughout, but never never for a year again.	b	Right,

qy^d	so I guess our vote is no .	na	That's right .

fc	Well, it's been nice talking to you again.	fc	You, too,

fc	but everything, you know,	fc	Yeah.

fc	so, The rest will just have to come with time.	fc	Good,

fc^m	Well, good luck to you, too.	fc	Thanks.

fc	Bye bye .	fc	Bye .

qo	So, how do you feel about the metric system?	sd	I like it.

qy	So you used the metric?	nn	Well, no.

b^r	yeah.	qy	are you involved in any engineering drawing stuff that? .

sd	And, you know, you know, it is broken up in, you know, the inch is broken up and has been for quite some time in tenths, hundredths, thousandths, ten thousandths, of an inch.	qy	Well, have you, do you, are you involved in any other, metric type things like ...

sd	and the metric system comes easy to me.	sv	I think it's interesting you know, when yo , you go out there

b	Right.	sv	Well, now that one's fairly easy, because that's probably slightly under half an inch.

sv	To go from eighths to sixteenths to, thirty seconds and remember where it falls, it ...	aa	Yeah.

sd^e	I drink beer.	qy	th , have you noticed that a lot of ...

^2	whiskey is in liters.	aa	Yes.

sd	point seven five liters and then liters and then one point seven five liters,	sd	like fifths of whiskey I thought was always kind of strange.

b	Yeah.	qh	What's a fifth of whiskey? .

sd	I always wondered about that myself.	sv	It was a marketing ploy.

sd	and they had quarts at the same time though.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	I find that interesting.

^2	Liters.	sv	and, I think it's kind of generational.

sd	Everything's still fractions of inches, or tenths or thousandths, or ...	aa	Yeah.

sv	It is a conversion thing.	sv	It's like a mill, you know.

b	Right.	qh	And well, what's a mill

sd	And before that we had a Horizon. you know, Plymouth Horizon?	b	Yeah.

sd	And both of them were a mismatch of both American and metric.	qy	Don't you find that interesting? that that they're doing that, in any field,

sd	The engine itself was mostly metric because it came from Canada.	bk	okay.

sd	And the starter was Bosch American,	bf	The bolts were Eng , were, were English then.

sd	and one of them was metric.	ba	Now that's strange.

sd	and on, you know, the factory fittings, you know, the factory, screw lock radiator hose clamps.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	or you measu , or you got your calipers there

sv	it's not a problem either way.	aa	No.

sd	Like I said, my only complaint is where they mixed them on the same car.	b	Yeah.

sv	and you don't know which set to reach in, American or metric.	b	Yeah.

^q	well, is that a metric bolt.	qy^g	You get you a pair of metric pliers, right ?

na^r	right.	qy^d	And you beat on it

qy^d	and my other concern is, is the American government going to force us to go.	sv	I don't think so.

aa	absolutely.	sv	I don't think they'd ever,

sd	It will always be.	b	Yeah.

sd	Twelve.	sd	I was trying to figure up gold content on something.

sd	There's twelve troy ounces to the pound.	b	Yeah.

qh	and is that going to change too?	sd	Well, I mean, and then there's a metric ton

qy	And are we still going to maintain drams for perfume?	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	It's all metric all ready.	ny	Yeah.

qy	Will a shot be an ounce?	no	I don't know.

sv	and you're lost.	aa	That's right.

sv	The economy.	aa	Yes.

sv	Personal tools to be able to do his job.	aa	Yeah.

sv	A three to four for eighty dollars.	bf	So you've got thousands of dollars or so.

aa	Real fast.	b	Yes.

sd	Your end mills will be measured in inches or fractions of inches.	b	Yeah.

qh	You know.	sv(^q)	But you, when you, when you simply drilling a hole, I mean, a real simple thing, like gee,

qh	What size hole?	b	Yeah.

qh	As in metric size hole or an American sized hole?	aa	Yeah.

sv	I think that there is something definitely wrong with our school system just because of the results that you see coming out of the school system, as far as, people dropping out of school, grades on test scores being low, more and more people taking G E D s trying to get out of high school instead of just going through high school.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know something must be wrong as far as, not just the teaching techniques but just motivation, within the schools themselves.	b	Yeah.

aa	Uh huh.	t3	I'm on the other line Karen.

bd	it's okay.	b^m	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, what to do about it I guess is the big thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm in a kind of an interesting situation in that my wife teaches school here in Plano.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I know that, the results that they get out of the system sometime is certainly not , you know, up to what the effort they put into it, you know,

sd	and I understand how, supportive they are of their students and how excited they are,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but some how, I don't think the students are getting excited.	aa	Yeah,

aa	uh huh .	sv	And, if, no matter what they do in the classroom, if they go home at night and, you know, it's all totally undone,

b	Uh huh.	sd	the thing that Karen, my wife, has run into so often is that you run into a group of kids that are going to succeed no matter what, no matter how bad their teachers are, no matter what a lousy system they're in, or anything else,

b	Uh huh.	sd	these people somehow manage to, you know, push on through and are successful.

^2	Progress,	sv	It's, unfortunately probably maybe twenty five or thirty percent of them do that.

sv	not even that much probably.	sv	Well, that would be at the absolute most.

aa	uh huh.	sv	And, you know, those that, you know, come out, you know, fall out of the system, that are real trouble,

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	I wonder whether that's just a part of the system, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, in a democracy where, you know, people have kind of, a freedom to sort of do what they want, you know, there's an inefficiency there,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you've got to let you know, those,

sv	And speaking of doing what you want, just in society today being that it's nineteen ninety one, a lot of teenagers and young people have a lot more freedom as far as what they do, as far as, you know, even something as simple as staying up late, watching television late, going out late, start dating,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you start dating too early, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	just little things like that, that do start in the home,	b	Yeah.

sv	and so any other part of your life, that's going to definitely affect your school life, because you spend so much time there.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	from the minute that you walk in until, yo , until you leave, your competing against somebody else

b	Right.	sv	there is a personality type I believe that is really noncompetitive.

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	and when they get into a real competitive system they just say, well, what the heck, and, tend not to, you know, do too awful well .

sd	and he, he will have gone to school five years.	b	Yeah.

sd	and the reason that he was doing so badly a couple of years ago was because his mother died,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he was having to, support his entire family, take care of his brothers and sisters, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and all that had an adverse affect on his school life.	ba	I would think so,

sv	And, you know, any other aspect of your life,	aa	Yeah,

sd	and, you know, it, it was there, it was just, I guess school was not a number one priority for him at that time.	aa	Yeah,

aa^r	uh huh.	sd	and unfortunately, you know, there's and old joke about, you know,

aa	exactly.	sd(^q)	I know when I went to school, my attitude was kind of one of, you know, these people are, you know, taking a tremendous amount of my time, you know,

b	Uh huh.	^q	and I've got better things to be doing than sitting here listening to this stuff over and over again.

aa	exactly.	sv	I guess today some how or other there would be a program of some sort that would take care of that sort of thing,

b	Uh huh.	sv	most teachers after they have taught for a very long, especially at the lower grades can spot a problem almost immediately.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it's kind of these intervention programs.

b	Right.	sv	and then it gets political.

b	Uh huh.	ba	But, boy.

sd	or I don't care, as long as it's something that's going to do some good or that looks like it could be beneficial,	aa	Uh huh,

sv	I mean that's the point we all should be at, is like finding some solution,	b	yeah.

sv	because there's not a lot being done.	sv	Well, you know, the radical programs in some cases are just totally unacceptable.

b	Right.	sv	or they're never going to get anywhere.

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	I'm sure that if you, you know, ran on a platform of, you know, we're going to find the kids that are having trouble at home and we're going to take them out of the home.

b	Take them out.	b	Yeah,

aa	not very far at all.	sv	but unfortunately it's something like that, in lieu of that, you know, is the intervention programs in school where these kids are spotted fairly early on,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, well that's get to be a problem in Texas, you know, because different school systems have got more or less money to take care of that sort of thing,

aa^r	right.	sd	you got counselors and all that.

b	Right.	sv	or they don't care.

sv	An a lot of the parents now are so young.	ba	True.

sv	I mean it's a vicious cycle, that we're, you know, smack dead in the center of	b	Yeah.

sv	and it's almost impossible to swim back up.	b	Yeah.

sv	there's definitely problems,	aa	Yeah

sv	they're going to be on everyone's mind for quite a while, too long.	qy^d	I don't know if you've ever had too much to do with, especially Asian, Japanese families coming,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	engineering types, people who have come from Japan,

b	Right.	sd	and they put their kids in the U S schools

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, not so much at what the schools are teaching, but what they let the kids get away with.

b	uh huh.	sd	they're quite upset about the disruptive influence of school.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And in Japan they would be, you know.

b	Right.	sv	But, here again, you get back into a political thing, where,

sv	There's definitely too much leeway as far as,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, I've been out of college only two years,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, I appreciate more what I had.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I had all these classes and all this knowledge and this big library across the street from my dorm,	b	Yeah,

sd	and I just didn't take as much advantage of it as I should have.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	I went to U T at Austin,	bk	okay.

sd	So, I mean all kinds of resources and, you know, just there,	b	Yeah.

sd	but then, if I was young, I wouldn't see it.	aa	Uh huh,

b	Right.	sd	I graduated from Texas Tech, more than two years ago, I guarantee,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, I kind of look back at it sometimes,

sd	I should have taken those continuing educations classes or whatever they were, you know,	b	Uh huh.

o	I'm ready .	ad^t	Why don't you go ahead and start off .

sv	I think they would be better off being at home with their family, you know.	aa	I agree, although, we're in that situation right now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We have an eighty seven year old mother in law living with me right now

b	Uh huh.	sd	and because of her circumstances she can no longer live independently.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we have several young children

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they about drive her crazy.

sv	In a situation like that maybe it would be better.	sd	Well, you know, we've struggled a lot with it because, again, most of the nursing homes I've been in are very depressing to me.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she's still alert enough that I think she would really know that we were putting her there

b	yeah.	sd	and I think she would really resent it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, on the other hand, I see my wife with,

b	Oh.	sd	and her trying to struggle because her mother really cannot take care of herself.

sv	see, now that's, that's really a sad situation.	sv	And so the drain on the family.

aa	really, you know.	sd(^q)	And when the kids have kids come, you know, she's always saying, you know, why do they have to be here,

b^r	right.	sv	So it's a hard situation, either way, I think.

sv	in a case like that, you know, you more or less think it would be better if she were in a nursing home because you have your family growing up where,	sd	I think that's one of the things we're really wrestling with.

sv	but the cost of these nursing homes are so, You know,	^2	prohibitive.

sv	a lot of people can't afford that.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was costing him a small fortune to keep her in there.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think if we could send her someplace for the day and she could be around some elderly people and have some activities would be of more interest to her and then in the evening have her return and be with the family.

sv	and then usually they want to go to bed fairly early anyhow.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, so that would probably be nice if we could ever get something like that	sv	But there's not many of those available right now

b	Yeah.	sv	and they're very hard to get them into

b	Uh huh.	sd	But they're really not prepared to cope with her because she's somewhat senile.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so a lot of the activities that they're engaged in, she can't participate in.

b^r	uh huh,	sv	But I think it's an issue that, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Because it is a difficult situation

sv	But if they have their wits about them and everything, why, it's kind of hard .	sv	And then I think it depends on their physical ability, too, you know,

sd	but there's, so many of us kids, there was like seven of us that, we wouldn't have probably allowed that to happen anyhow.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, she could have taken turns living with each one of us, you know, for a sh , a period of time because we all don't live in the same city anyhow, nor the same state	qy	Do you live at all close to each other?

o	Okay.	b^m	Okay.

qo	So, what do you think about it?	sv	I like as a growing choi , the choices you have in nursing homes now, whereas you used to have only, you put, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and there was no other choice.

b	Right.	sv	or your daily job or whatever prevented it.

b	Yeah.	sv	And then if things deteriorate, they can go to a second level which is, you know, like, where they prepare their meals for them

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they still live somewhat independently

b	Uh huh.	sv	And then where the same community a lot of times will also have the third level, which is full care, you know, where they're in a wheelchair or where they're in a bed,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they can't get around

sd	I know someone that works in all three different stages like you said.	b	Uh huh.

sd	or most of, one of their spouses has already passed away.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it's really nice for them because then they're with people their own age, and people that have gone through things exactly what they have gone through.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I know it was hard for me as well as it was for them to actually sit down, because she doesn't like doing things that the younger kids like doing.	b	Right.

sv	so it's really nice to see that.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the programs,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Like you're saying,

b	Yeah.	sd	and some of them sponsor different crafts,

b	Uh huh.	sd	or, you know, or someone will transport them to a specific church, even though you know, maybe it's thirty minutes away,

b	Yeah .	sd	But a lot of these places have churches or have individual transportation.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Because even in the nice ones, and even in the ones where they can live fairly independently, they really don't necessarily like it because they're not in their own home.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So I think those kinds of things, to make it more homelike and to make it more, enjoyable for them. that'd be one thing I'd look for, along with the, health care aspects to make sure you know, that it was clean and that they had good doctors and nurses.

sd	and there was a girl in my class who did a speech on home care of the elderly.	b	Uh huh.

sv	like whenever they're in, you know, the older people, they're like, fastened to their beds so they can't get out just because you know, they wander the halls. And they get the wrong medicine, just because, you know, the aides or whoever just give them the wrong medicine.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And so many of them, you know, are,	^2	Are overmedicated, too.

sd	and I mean, she did research on it and everything.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	Or they have very minimal care

b	Yeah.	sv	and like you said, the caretakers in some cases are trying to make easy on themselves to the point where they're putting people in bed or overmedicating them so they'll stay in one spot and not do anything.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That certainly would be something to watch for.

sv	and it's just a little cubbyhole,	b	Yeah.

sv	and they're still paying that much.	aa	yeah,

sv	it, it just sometimes, it just seems ridiculous.	aa	Yeah,

^q	stay in the house as long as you can.	sv	Well, like there are other communities, too, that aren't necessarily a nursing home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it was, supplemented,

b	Oh.	sd	they had, and they had people who came in who, supervised, all these houses,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they had a supervisory,

sv	It sounds like, an apartment or som ,	sd	and someone, could come to their house.

b	Yeah.	sd	and they always cooked,

b	Uh huh.	sd	They had their own possessions still in there, you know, some of them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they could make their own breakfast if they wanted to, and their own dinner,

b	Uh huh.	sd	They had people who did the yard,

b	yeah.	sd	And it was really a nice compromise, especially, because she felt like she was still living in her own house.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she still had her own couch, and her own bed,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

sd	well, I've lived here for thirty years,	b	Yeah.

sd	and we don't want to leave.	b	yeah.

sd	we've run into a lot of that.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	she felt that way, too,

b	Yeah.	sd	it was a pilot program I think, where she lived,

sd	but everyone has basically their own room.	b	Yeah.

sd	none of them have cars because they can't drive.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it's really nice because that keeps them going, too, rather than just sitting around.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we play bingo with them and, you know, like, stuff like that.	ba	That's good.

b	Uh huh	sv	An even if it's just a little bit.

sv	just to keep them going.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	bf	So, it's more like living in a big house where it's your turn to set the table, like you're saying, or whatever instead of being waited on hand and foot all the time.

aa	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think they would have to agree to go in it.	aa	Yes,

b	Well, yeah.	sv	Like you're saying with Alzheimer's and stuff, they're going to be some people who have to be there whether they want to or not,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that's when it's important to really check out the medical aspects of it, when you're in something like that, that they'll get the kind of medical care or they need, without overdoing it. Without doing something you know, to keep, like you're saying, to keep them still to make the staff happy.

qw	Where are you, Bob?	sd	I am in Plano.

sd	I am in Waco.	bh	Is that right?

ny	Yeah.	bk	okay.

sd	My favorite subject .	qy	You mean you use credit cards?

na	do I.	qy^d	I bet you used them all up over Christmas.

sd	I get in a rut with credit cards cause they get me kind of in a vicious cycle. Where you use them a lot one month and then you have to use whatever money you have to pay those off	sv	And then your are in debt.

sv	so you use a credit card.	ba	I understand that.

qy	Do you use them a lot?	nd	Well, it kind of comes and goes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Once a year, I get a free airplane ride that way.

bk	Oh.	sd	So, as long as you pay it off every month, it doesn't cost you anything.

qy	Is that that through a VISA?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	ny^r	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	If I don't then it gets expensive .

sd	I pay, like the minimum.	ad	Well you shouldn't do that.

sd	So I have got myself,	sv	you never get out of the hole that way.

sd	So, it is kind of strange.	qy^g	Kind of like the federal government right?

sv	In, In debt.	sv	Can't never get out of debt.

qy	Have they put the cap on the interest rates?	nn	No.

sd	I know they were considering it.	sd	Just the people who don't need credit get the four and a half percent.

qy^g	Funny how that works, isn't it ?	sv	thou who doesn't need credit, gets cheap credit.

sv	I think it would be amazing how many more people use it.	aa	Well, I think so

sv	Because of the economy.	aa	That's right.

b	Yeah.	sv	You have got to use everything you have got just to stay where you are at.

sv	I think that would be interesting.	qy	do you have any, credit union where you work or anything like that?

sd^e	I have a credit union.	qy	Do they have a Mastercard or VISA card?

ny	Uh huh.	qy^d	You have got that one.

sd	I work for Channel six.	bk	Oh.

sd	it's an N B C affiliate down here.	sd	I do a lot of work down in Waco,

qw	What is your,	sd	I sell metal fabricating equipment and tooling.

bk	okay.	sd	Tyme and Mercury and Tempco and all those people down there.

qy	You ever work with Davis?	qy^h	Davis Iron?

ny	yeah.	ny^m	Yeah,

^h	And, what else.	qy	are you in the south part of town now?

nd	Well, I live actually in Hewett.	bk	yeah.

sd	right outside.	qy	You know Do you know Parker Machine Tool down there.

bf	So, that is where Davis Iron Works is.	qy^d	Bobby Parker and,

h	but I am not sure.	sd	There is a place in Hewett, called,

b	Prime Air.	sd	They make, humidifiers and filters for air filtration stuff for hospitals, homes, something like that.

qy	Have you ever been to Marlin?	ny	yeah.

sd	It is called H G H or something like K G H or,	b	really.

sd	I can't think of the name.	sd	I will have to stop in there.

b	yeah.	sd	He is working on his Master's.

b	Yeah.	sd	That is about the last time I have been through Marlin and Mart .

sd	we have stories out there	sv	There is always a state trooper down there.

aa	I know.	sv	Between Mart and Marlin, they will nail you if you go over sixty miles an hour.

sv	they are bad at Hewett too. On eighty four.	b	Uh huh.

qy	have you noticed any new, trends in politics?	na	Well, the one I think is interesting is the Los Angeles police chief who says he won't resign.

sd^e	I didn't hear that.	sv	I think what's interesting is that, the political activists, Jesse Jackson and a lot of other people went out there and are demonstrating.

sv	I don't see any problem with outsiders going in and getting a little bit involved.	qy	Well, do you but do you think Gates should resign?

sv	and he obviously failed somewhere along the line.	qy	well, speaking of that kind of issue, have you kept up with John Wiley Price?

ny	Yeah.	qo	What do you think of him?

sv	but I'm not sure if the way he goes about what he does is really right.	sv	He's an interesting person.

b	Right.	sv	and, the, the, at those meetings he really comes quite well prepared and is well informed and is a hard worker and is really quite agreeable,

b	Uh huh.	sv	well, he's really just trying to make a political statement.

sv	it seems like every area should have an equal voice.	aa	I agree with you

nn	No.	sv	it was the strangest,

b	Yeah.	sd	I guess I am disappointed with Dallas in that, the fourteen one, it,

qy	Diane Ragsdale?	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	and I think Dallas is doing itself a disservice.

sd	and I don't know why certain groups are fighting so hard to keep the ten four one.	aa	Yeah,

nn	huh uh.	sv	and it all seems, you know, like everybody's trying to one upmanship on everybody else

fc	Okay.	fc	It was good talking to you.

fc	Good talking to you.	fc	Okay.

sd	if they're forgetting things or whatever, I'd prefer to have them at home or have them in what they call now home care where somebody comes in	b	Uh huh.

sd	But they were not given the time	b	Yeah.

sd	and they were not given the money, basically, to staff, appropriately, people to help.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but hopefully, they have.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I have an aunt who lived on her own until she was well in her nineties

b	Sure.	sd	and then she got sick

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my parents went to visit her

b	Sure.	sd	and so they gave her drugs to keep her asleep.

sd	but I'm sure that some of the patients were, given medication to keep them quiet	sv	Nice sedative state.

sd	and I remember one time watching one of the, schizophrenic patients actually go out on, I don't know what they call it, a binge or whatever you want to say it	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I think there's laws now That nursing homes either have to keep the mentally ill totally away from these people and not in the same type of facilities,	b	Yeah.

sv	They don't have these tendencies to lash out.	sv	To be violent.

sd	I wouldn't put my mother, father in that nursing home at all.	qr	Was this in a big town or a little town?

sd	A small town.	bh	really?

ny^r	yeah.	sv	Because it seems like the small town nursing homes, there's a lot more personal attention.

sv	I think if you have a big city area, I think there's more people to keep watch on it.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	And this is back in nineteen seventy seven that I worked there	b	Uh huh .

o	Here we go.	b	Okay,

sd^t	like how was it, maybe ten, twenty, thirty years ago as opposed to what it is today	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	how we're living socially in comparison to maybe from that time period from ten, twenty, or whatever you remember it to be.	sv	well, I guess it would be like your generation compared to my generation.

sv	and although it's more publicized as opposed to what it used to be it seems like violent crime is on the increase from what I've seen,	b	Uh huh.

sd	our economy, too, it's just not what it used to be in the sixties or even fifties from history from what I've read,	b	Uh huh.

sv	To me, also, our nuclear family is not the same because more people are living together that aren't married	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, I don't really want to either , because I have no problems about it either way	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, kids are, I suppose have been raised by single parents more than they ever used to	aa	Yes, I agree with,

sv	women are more on the rise too so far as getting their careers established,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, they don't no longer feel dependent upon men,	qy	Well, Well, do you think that that maybe,

sv	I mean, they are, a lot of them that have to put their kids into day care or having more with baby sitters,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, I guess that's why you always hear these stories about kids being neglected.	b	Yeah.

sd	she was caught going to work and leaving her daughter in her car all day.	ba	my gosh, just a baby.

sd	I would say she was five to eight years old somewhere along that range,	ba	my gosh.

sv	but that's just an extreme example.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I would imagine, you know, the situations are out there.	b	Yeah.

aa	I agree there.	sv	like I think, well, in the morals and values of like my generation for most people are totally different from the morals and values of like per se your generation.

sv	I could agree with that, because used to conservatism was inherent at a much younger age,	aa	Uh huh,

sv	It's just a hop, skip and a jump to get into a plane to go from the east to the west coast	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, well, I think what's happened, too, is just our technology is just advancing so rapidly that, and there's so much information available out there that folks out there just have a hard time keeping up, aside from just going through their daily routine of living to get from day to day	b	Uh huh.

sv	the cable system and the satellite dishes has made it to where a lot of people can just leave regular T V programming and watch a variety of programs out there, as well as use of the V C R	b	Uh huh.

qr^d	so that, I don't know if it really hampers or it helps our education system.	no	I don't know, because while I'm up here at school, I don't watch hardly any T V.

qy	Do you watch L A LAW?	nn	No,

sd	I like that.	sd	even though there's a few up here, we call them couch potatoes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there isn't really a lot of T V watching.

qy^g	at least you're hitting the books, right.	nd	They're either hitting the books or something else,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I can't say that there's really that many people that like sit in front of the T V all day.

sv	of course, going to school, too, it's different from the home environment,	aa	Uh huh,

sd	because that's all that we had	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, I mean, it's, for the top medium of entertainment.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Even at your age?	nd	Well, like my younger brothers and sisters at home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	even now when I go home for the Summer, she makes us go outside,

bk	I see.	sd	and if it was up to her, we wouldn't have one.

qy	Is there anything else?	qo	What about in our work ethics?

sv	of course, we , we're having to weather through the savings and loans all the other scandalous items that, well, the greed that overwhelmed us in the eighties	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's going to be really passed on to your generation and maybe a few others including what's left of ours .	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, it was nice talking to you.	fc^m	It was nice talking to you too.

qy	is, that a sport you like to participate in?	nn	No.

sd	but I stand there and swing and swing,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I can't even hit the ball .	sd	I can't even play miniature golf well.

sd	I don't either .	sv	Well, there are just some things that we're good at and other things that we're not,

b	Right.	sd	And he was really, enthusiastic about keeping up with the tournaments.

bf	so he's really into it.	aa	yeah,

ba	Wow.	sd	and did some, you know, instructions at the country club for a while.

b	Oh.	sd	I am not really deeply involved in following any of the sports.

b	Yeah.	sd	But golf was one that I developed a working knowledge of a lot of the golfers,

qy^d	more because of their personalities than their sportsman .	b	Uh huh.

b	Right .	sd	And, I know that my husband,

b	Oh.	sd	And he thought he was spectacular.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Any time they both played, why, he was just real excited when Tom was, you know, shown on the television,

b	Uh huh .	sd	We both followed Lee Trevino into the Seniors.

sv	he's interesting.	aa	He is.

sd	I like to watch him.	sv	He is a character not just a golfer,

b	Yeah.	sv	but he's quite a character.

b	Yeah.	sv	And there are some really, really wonderful people in the game of golf who do give wonderful role models.

aa	I think you're right.	sv	And I think it's critical to have a good role model in any sports.

sd	I like to watch those skins games.	b	Uh huh.

sd	for each hole they win they get the money for it.	ny	Uh huh.

sv	I think those are pretty exciting.	sd	Well, I myself, really have not seen a whole lot of point to the game of golf.

aa	yeah.	sv	And I know the whole point is to get it in that little bitty hole,

sd	I sometimes wonder why men like it so much because they get so frustrated and mad at themselves when they don't do well.	aa	I know.

sd	They play like maybe once a month or less	b	Uh huh,

sd	and they think they're having a really good game .	b	yeah.

ba	Wow.	sv	so he wasn't bad.

ba	that is good.	sv	He was pretty good,

b	Right.	sv	But it is a good healthy, wholesome lifestyle,

b	Yeah.	sv	But I think that that is one of the sports that's a good healthy way to move into maturity safely.

sv	Something to stay active at for a long time.	aa	Uh huh,

b^r	yeah.	sv	And a lot of elderly people don't even take up golf until they're, you know, in their later years.

sv	and they can still get good at it.	aa	That's right,

sd	Well, maybe that's what I'll do when I have time later on,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah .	sv	But it's also something that husband and wife can participate in

b	Uh huh.	sv	or, you can both enjoy the same sport and participate in separate circles.

ba	True.	sv	You know, you can go to the country club together.

sv	just ride around in the cart with him .	ba	You bet,

sv	Go somewhere really nice, like Hawaii, and just look at the golf course.	aa	Uh huh,

sd	so he's not too bad to watch.	b	Uh huh.

ba	no,	sd	He's replaced almost as many clubs as he has balls.

sd	because he'll talk about the other guys he plays with doing that and how immature he thought it was and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I guess he's real laid back about it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he'll tell me what a great day he had, and about this great shot he made and everything .	b	Uh huh,

qy(^q)	Did you have to listen to long stories about, now on the seventeenth hole I hit it and went this way	ny	Uh huh.

sd	it's hard for me to, act nice about that when it goes on and on,	sv	Well, one thing that is a drawback about it, I think, is the cost.

aa	Yes.	sv	Membership in the clubs is expensive,

sv	and then they want to play another course they're not a member of	aa	That's right.

sv	and other fees.	aa	That's right,

sv	It really is high.	aa	It can get very expensive,

b	Yeah.	sd	And they don't give those sessions away.

b	Right.	sd	As a matter of fact a friend of mine asked me if I thought I'd be interested in golf.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And he said, well, fine,

b	Uh huh	^q	If you do, then we can go golf together.

b	Uh huh.	ba	whoa,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And you really begin to develop an interest in it.

sd	Me either.	sd	You know, I'm always the one that got hit by the bat in baseball, and, hu , hung my fingernails in the net in volleyball.

sv	at least you're just com , you're competing against yourself, I guess, more than everybody else out there.	sv	It doesn't appear to be .

sd	that's, kind of the way I feel.	sd	The one thing that is also detrimental as far I'm concerned, my skin is very fair

b	Oh.	sd	so I'm going to have to golf in the evening

sd	Well Brent, I kind of gave up my career about three years ago to stay home with my children because I thought, it's only going to be another year until the youngest is in school.	b	Right.

sd	And I thought it was a good sacrifice to make, because, it was important to me to spend some time with kids.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I would leave,	b	Right.

sd	It was like that they thought that's the way life was, that you didn't have two parents at home at the same time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we do things together.	b	Uh huh.

ny	Yes.	sd	So am I.

bh	you are?	ny	Yes,

aa	Yes	b	Yeah,

sd	right, and then we try to do a family activity on Saturday, usually in the morning.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, it's real important to us to spend time together.	b	Right.

sd	I have two.	qy^m	Two?

ny	Uh huh.	qo@	what do you have? Five and four.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have two daughters.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My oldest is, four

b@	 Uh huh.	b	Two girls.

aa^m	They are a handful.	aa	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, she got pregnant

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we made that decision

b	Yes.	sd	And so, you know, at work a lot of people are, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I only have one other person I know in my group here that works where the wife stays home,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But everybody else works

sv	and it's just not, it's not as stable for the kids,	b	Right.

sd	and everybody decided to come over and talk to me right now.	sd	That's how it is at our house when you're on the phone.

sd	I try to go out of my way to plan things that he can do with the kids because, since I am home with them and so I get a lot of time with them, he needs to have, some time with them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So when he comes home, he, you know, it's his job at night. He puts the kids to bed,	b	Right.

sd	and he reads to them,	b	Right.

sd	and that's pretty good quality time, with them,	b	Right.

sd	he wants, Right, he wants to run out and get things done,	qy^d	With all the yard work and things like that.

^q	or why don't you do something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And if I have something in mind, then he remembers that, that's what he wants to do.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Like last Saturday we went, had some errands to run

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they had a blast running around the Farmers Market looking at all the, you know, the food and tasting all the free samples they were giving out.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they liked that.

b	Yes.	sd	and they had all kinds of pigs and horses and goats and sheep and everything, you know, all out in the, in this schoolyard there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and for them that's wonderful, you know.

sv	It's not nearly as important.	b	Right.

sv	We find that, you know, back just even fifty years ago when people had financial problems, the first place they went to was their family.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but now, you know, they don't support each other that way.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and a mother isn't an important important thing as having a career

aa	That's right	sv	and that should be first and, and children second.

sv	And it's not an easy sacrifice for a person to make, because, you know, you know, I have interests that, too,	aa	No.

sd	and it is hard to make, those interests not be as a major part of my life.	qy^d	at this point.

ny	Uh huh.	sv	It's not to say that some day you won't go back to work.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So she would just substitute once or twice a week, you know, just for that little extra money when we were in school.

b	Right.	sd	But my, youngest sister's at B Y U now,

sv	in the middle of it, it seems like a long time,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I see that we both share the same belief here that it's important that we spend time with our kids	b	Yeah.

sd	and, and, in spite of,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And a lot of them decide just not to have children.

aa	Yes.	sv	it's amazing, they either have one or none.

aa	That's true.	sd	and the one person I know that has one, they feel guilty.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, and they don't want to have anymore children because she doesn't think she could be a mother at home.

sd	Well, it is, the hardest thing I've ever done, as much as you'd go out	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	she works at home some, though.

b	Uh huh.	sd	The place she worked with before, worked out an arrangement with her where she can work at home, part time,

ba	Well, that's good.	sd	and so, it's kind of a seasonal thing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but the rest of the time she's free.

sv	You can at least say that it's important to our country, that our family unit stays strong.	aa	Right,

b	Yes.	sv	when you adjust your income for what you put out for day care, you know, you're only making like five.

sd	I'm still a graduate student.	ny	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I had the unpleasant experience of going through several schools that were very specialized.

sd	so it wasn't that specialized.	ba	That's wonderful.

b	Yeah.	sd	being an engineer now, I believe in it even more strongly than I did before.

sv	people are getting pure technical science educations and not getting very good liberal arts sorts of issues.	sd	Well, thus far it's working to my advantage.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I have the ability to listen to them and then translate that into something that nonengineers can understand.

qy^d	Well, that must be helpful.	nd	Well, it's, a lot of fun, at the moment.

sv	and save specialization, I guess, for graduate school, unless they're sure early on they want to do something like engineering or something.	sd	Even at that, I have a son, who's only nine at the moment.

sv	I think we do some they have pretty good engineering here.	aa	Yes,

sv	people are forced to sort of take all different kinds of classes here, which I think is wonderful.	aa	I agree.

b	Right.	sd	the typical land grant university,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Anyway, while it has both engineering and liberal arts, the engineering students tend to cluster together.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, they're in classes together, even when they're outside of the engineering department.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they don't learn the communications,

sv	That would, be very good actually.	sv	And it's, that's not even true in our colleges.

sd	so the first year Humanities courses everyone had to read the Iliad and so forth,	b	Right.

sd	but then, afterward, we all wound up taking extra art history classes, because it just seemed like something we didn't totally know nothing about, but just enjoyed very much doing, and something I would never would have done if I wasn't forced to take it.	sd	Yes, I re , I remember that experience

b	Uh huh.	sd	that and, extra music classes.

sd	I feel a little more worldly now .	sv	Well, that will continue to grow even as you go beyond graduate school.

sd	I'm, I'm hoping, I'm hoping.	qy	have you gone straight through?

sd	and I went for like two or three weeks and realized, not enough time for the work unfortunately.	aa	That's true.

^h	what else.	co	Well, let me encourage you to stop and experience life along the way.

b	Oh.	sd	I first enrolled in college in nineteen sixty six.

b	Uh huh.	sd	six years, and a war later, I got an undergraduate degree.

bf	You had real world experience in the middle there.	aa	yes.

qy^g	And that helped, you think?	sv	it certainly makes acceptance of different ideas a lot easier.

sd	I've, I've learned much just sort of by watching her and her business as well.	sv	Well, vicarious learning is a wonderful thing.

b	Yeah .	sv	It certainly means that we don't have to experience everything,

sd	Well, I'll take that, I'll take that and think that through a little bit.	sd	My wife, as I may have mentioned, just finished a doctorate a couple of years ago.

b	Yes.	sd	and she pursued her education along the lines that I did with lots of break in between.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she feels reasonably comfortable teaching now.

sv	you have, just in general, maternity leave plans that kind of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I've had a chance to kind of take a look at, the pros and cons of both.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they even hate to give out unemployment at the end of tax season because you know, they're fairly, even though they're a large scale company, they're very, the offices, the individual offices are very small

b	Uh huh.	sd	and now I work for the Framingham school system because I'm a teacher.

b	Sure.	sd	And, we have much better benefits, you know, in the system.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We have a good pension plan.

sv	That's pretty good for, you know, being a school district type program.	aa	Right.

o@	* slash error like the small corporation that I work for. There's no pension plan	b	Yeah.

sd	It's not accumulative, type of sick leave you know, things like that.	b	Oh!

sv	they don't have as good as insurance packages as big corporations.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My father's retired from the town of Framingham

b	Sure.	sd	and he said that they haven't gotten a cost of living raise in over five years.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	And he said that's the only thing that really stinks as far as being retired

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it's, hopefully will go through.

aa^r	yeah.	sd	But, you know, I think the schools are at, where the schools isn't just the school system and not just the teachers.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They took in the whole town plus all you know,

qy	Is it a union?	na	we have the teachers union which helps out a lot,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but the town of Framingham pays the benefits

b	Uh huh.	sd	and where it's a very large town,

b	Sure.	sd	where it's extremely large, they were able to offer a little bit more which was really great because we don't have to pay a mayor .

sv	I mean, i , it does end up being quite a bit when you have to hire somebody for that position, sure.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it works out good because we reap the benefits of it

b	Uh huh.	sd	but as far as shopping for a job, I'd rather shop for the benefits than the salary.

sv	I'm talking like hugh companies like Three M, Honeywell, Texas Instruments	b	Right .

sv	Partly it's because the owner wants to keep getting richer and richer.	b	Right .

qy	Are you interested in that at all?	ng	Not really .

b	Uh huh .	sd	I haven't read too many.

sd	But I wouldn't want to go out and buy it like, you know, the hard back copy of it.	b	Yeah.

sd	But I might check,	sd	if they had it, I don't even know that I'd probably read it even if it was at the library though.

b	Really.	sd	I just, you know, I'm just not really interested in reading about other people's lives to that degree.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, unless maybe they lived a long, long time ago.

sd	And I wouldn't want to sit down and just read it cover to cover, but flip through just to get a good laugh.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that was excellent.

bh	Was it?	ny	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I've been looking for, you know, the other half of it and read the,

b	Uh huh.	sd	, and that was actually a couple of years ago,

b	A while.	sd	I love to read.

b	Right.	sv	And you have so many out there that you know, you never get a chance to read.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that, even when I read it now, it still makes me cry, the ending of it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'd read some Dickens before,

b	Uh huh.	sv	something's excellent about them, whether it's the way they were written or whether it was the material you know, that was written about.

b	Oh!	sd	And, she just would get them real cheap and stuff and send them over.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she knows so much more of them than I do,

b	Right.	b	You know.

sd	Usually, I'm going to the book store for a particular reason,	sv	probably you read a book review or something.

aa	Yes.	sv	A review on it.

sd	so I bought a couple of books about how to buy a house and what to look for, you know. or how to repair this or repair that in your own home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, you know, like some, medical symptoms, like how do you know when to take your child to the doctor or not, type books, which I use as reference and have been real handy.	b	Yeah.

sd	or I just enjoy, you know, the newspaper magazine.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's handy.	sd	Well, what I do is I usually have two books at one time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but others, eh , I really do have to work at them.

b	Right.	sd	But to me it's worthwhile in the end.

^2	Light reading.	sd	just light reading that are,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's it,

sv	It's not like, most television where you know, you just, you can sit there and not even pay attention very much but, still understand what was going on.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, it's basically mindless.

b	Right.	sv	But they give you everything else.

b	Right.	sv	And the television that we see nowadays seems like it's, it's, it doesn't even have some of the underlying, things to it, you know, that maybe the old movies and things had, you know, the underlying themes and stuff that maybe you had to kind of figure out.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Or, you know, like with Hitchcock or something where you're, you're either expecting something or w ,

aa	Not too much.	aa	No.

sv	Well, I think it is good to read books and, because even if like you say, it's light reading, you are still getting some, mental exercise .	aa	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	you're, you're taking words and developing a picture in your mind.

aa	That's right.	sv	So, I mean, it's excellent.

ba	That's good.	sd	I'm, we haven't got children yet,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, even if you haven't got a f , a human friend around, you can pick up a book and, be with somebody, basically.

fc	 Well, I was.	fc	I gathered you might be a teacher.

fc	I'm home now, full time.	fc	Oh.

fc	we think books are important around here.	fc	Yeah.

fc	Well, you have a good day.	fc	Okay.

fc	Stay out of the rain.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Take care.

fp	Good morning.	fp^m	Good morning.

ad	go ahead.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I was in the Peace Corps and, Peru,	b	uh huh

sd	but recently I have been following the Middle East rather than, Central America .	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sd	It don't matter what their excesses were,

b	Right.	sd	We didn't seem to be going in and taking anything out of the country other than just it's labor,

b	Uh huh.	sd	because everything that T I did anyway we shipped in

qy	did that have,	sd	I didn't feel that we really exploiting them any.

bf	and they weren't.	aa	No,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, of course, we kind of concentrate on ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	the only thing that they had a great abundance of was, you know, human beings

sv	like sometimes when Americans go into foreign countries they tend to flaunt American things, Americanism, consumer products, T V, the whole works.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, it's the almost stereotype, you know,

b^r	uh huh.	fe	but boy

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And I saw incidences in the hotel where I just wanted to go over and crawl in the corner and say, my God

b	Right.	^q	But there are

b	Uh huh.	sd	matter of fact if anything, she's worse.

b^r	uh huh .	sd	But, it just, there's little enclaves down there where, you know, Americans have a lot of influence

b	Uh huh .	qy	Well, you were in Peru?

sd	but, there weren't, as I recall, or at least I wasn't aware of that many Americans there except for a very heavy concentration of Peace Corps volunteers,	b	Uh huh .

sd	this was when the Peace Corps first are started,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, and you couldn't just, take off and leave your group and go explore and things like that,	b	Oh.

sd	although I was living in the slums, I was really working with the middle class.	b	Uh huh .

sd	I was up in Arequipa .	bk	okay

b	Uh huh	qy	Well, are they, is Peace Corps still active down in there?

sd	I mean, I was, Per , Peru thirteen, which meant there were twelve groups before mine, that had gone in	b	Uh huh.

sd	health, inoculation and things.	qy	has those influences lasted

sd	because, some of the Peace Corps, that I knew of, did marry Peruvians, and have been back	b	Uh huh .

sd	and then, of course, Peace Corps bowed out of that because that's, something that nationalized very quickly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And the same with the co ops.	bf	Well, that was kind of the aim wasn't it, to get it started and then have it, taken up by the,

aa	Right.	sd	I had wondered sometimes,

qh	I mean, why should we push English,	b	Uh huh .

sd	but basically I taught it in Spanish, because, I mean, I really didn't see the point in their knowing stuff rotely and writing it on a test.	b	Oh.

fp	Good morning.	fp	Hi.

fp	My name is Jean.	fp	I'm Tina.

qw	where you from Tina?	sd	I live in Garland, Texas.

sd	I'm in Pennsylvania.	sd	my lands, you're the farthest person I've ever talked to.

bh	Really? .	ny	Yeah.

qy	Do you work for Texas Instruments?	ng	My husband does.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know what .	b	I see,

sd^t	So, I guess we're supposed to talk about foods today.	aa	Yeah,

aa	uh huh.	b	Okay.

qy^t	You ready?	ny	Yeah.

sd	foods like you would for a dinner party or something like that.	b	Yeah,

sd	and I don't think they ate all that much different .	b	really.

sv	course, for a dinner party, you fancy things up a little bit more.	aa	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and up there, of course they ate a lot of sea food, and that kind of thing,

b	uh huh.	sv	and down here, sea food is pretty expensive, because, you have to ship it a long way to get it .

sv	and it's not as good as if it's fresh.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, up there there was no place that we went tasted like real Mexican food to me.

bh	Is that right?	ny	Yeah,

aa	well, they probably were trying to do the best they could.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	sd	and, down here, we eat a lot more fried foods, I think.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Like chicken fried steak, is a real big thing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Up there, it was hardly ever heard of

b	Uh huh.	sd	and up there hardly anyone drank ice tea .

sv	I think that tea is big in the summertime mostly.	bh	Really?

sv	Of course, you have warmer weather most of the time.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

bh	Is that right?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and a lot of the times when we get together, well everybody will bring a Mexican dish

bf	More like covered dishes for those type of dinners.	aa	Uh huh.

nd	just about anything .	bh	really.

sd	well, like we had a dinner party here not too long ago with a mystery dinner party .	bk	Oh.

sd	But, basically, we you know, included all the basic, foods that you are supposed to have in a meal .	b	Uh huh.

sd	or least what it used to be the regular menu was followed and , ham and bake potatoes,	b	Uh huh.

sd	something from each area that you're supposed to choose from.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, we've really been enjoying those, meals.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, they really are very good.	b	Uh huh,

qy	Is he a meat and potato person?	na	Right.

sd	They are out on their own.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it's much different	sv	That probably makes it easier,

sd	and we ate that when he wasn't going to be home for supper,	b	Right.

sd	that's what we had .	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, they like, spaghetti.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, that's one meal, I can fix

b	yeah.	sd	and the whole family eats.

sv	those always go good.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	and, they are real easy to cook

b	Yeah.	sd	and my girls don't like beef,

sv	Well maybe. that's good the way the things are going.	h	I guess,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it takes more chewing .

sv	Children usually they like the ham and the hamburgers, and that,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it is easier to chew.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My husband and I eat more beef than we should,

sd	We don't really you know, entertain too much.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we're more, once in a while, but mostly family, activities.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We have a real tiny little house,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But, we do get together for fellowships at our church,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, my husband and I do a lot of the planning in that.

ba	Well that's good.	aa	Yeah,

sd	we do a lot of that take , things to church	b	Yeah.

sd	and, that's what we do mostly, most of the time for that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you just bring, what you like .	b	Right.

sd	sometimes, you have all vegetables .	b	Yeah .

sd	and you can , have pretty good meals, from one of those.	b	Uh huh.

ba	those are fun.	aa	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it's the only time I can remember that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we had tons of desserts and tons of appetizers

qy	Was there enough to go around? .	ng	Well, not really,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we were not sure who didn't show up with the food .

sv	that's kind of irresponsible and does upset you, because they are grown adults usually ,	aa	Yes.

sv	and you know they know better.	b	Right.

sv	Even if they can't do it, they can always maybe get somebody else to cook .	aa	Right.

aa^r	Right.	b	I know it.

sd^t	They said that we share, a recipe	sd	It sounds like you're here in Dallas.

sd	I don't even have any of my recipes with me.	b	Oh.

b	Oh.	sd	and we're waiting on my sister.

ba	great.	t3	Cara, hold on just a second

fc	Well, have we talked long enough	fc	I think it probably has been.

fc	Okay,	fc	So, I've enjoyed talking to you.

fc	You have a good day.	fc	Thank you.

fc	Uh huh.	fc	Bye bye.

qo	how do you feel about, the way the U S has reacted in the Middle East?	nd	Well, it was favorable.

b	Huh uh.	sv	It got over so fast,

qw	What is the Woodward book you are referring to?	sd	Well, it just came out, I guess, yesterday.

b	Huh uh.	sv	And so it seems like there's, you know, always some body digging things like that.

b	Huh uh.	sv	So, we were so, fast to get over the Vietnam, whatever the Vietnam syndrome is, that now we've tied ourselves up there in the Middle East for a long period of time.

sd	I was very against our involvement so quickly.	b	Yeah.

aa^r	Huh uh.	sv	With that much support, you would have just penalized any nation that broke the embargo,

sv	I think we're very naive as far as that part of the world is concerned.	aa	We are.

sv	In spite of all the promises.	aa	Right.

b^r	Huh uh.	aa	And we're still, I, I you're absolutely right,

aa^r	Huh uh.	sv	be interesting to keep watching I guess,

sv	And I'm not sure we're sensitive to other cultures.	sv	Not very much in our colleges,

b	Huh uh.	sv	with our school systems in such disarray, I don't know, it doesn't look terribly hopeful.

sv	I mean, awareness.	sv	Well, you can at least, give them the awareness of the different cultures and, you know, at least, you know, let them know that, that other people do things differently than, than maybe in their own neighborhood.

b	Huh uh.	sv	and when, when those people are around

aa^r	That's true.	sv	So, But it's something you know, as I said won't go away,

b	Yeah.	sv	so it will be a good topic for me in the class for along time .

qo	And, what about the whole situation with the refugees, the Kurds?	sv	Well, I would just think if Bush was so successful in lining up the correlation to prosecute a war, then he should be equally successful in getting that same correlation to push the United Nations to, somehow persuade those nations to give the Kurds a homeland

qo	But, what about the Palestinians?	sv	Well, that's the same thing,

b^r	Right.	sv	that becomes a different matter simply because your dealing with Israel

b	Huh uh.	sv	that Shamir can't retain his leadership if he backs down the slightest bit

aa^r	Huh uh	sv	or at least we thought they were.

qrr	or should we have just stayed out of it?	sv	Well, I wish we could stay out of it,

aa^r	Right.	sv	But I'm not for sure that we're not destined, at least for the foreseeable future, as long as we can keep our own head above water, to be the world leader.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And I wouldn't have necessarily fought for the Kuwaitis,

sv	because, I mean, I mean, I don't think, it's our world to westernize the whole world,	b	Huh uh.

sv	so the fact that the Saudi could just sort of pull back and, remain, you know, culturally sort of clean is interesting.	aa	Yeah.

aa	Huh uh.	sv	But, it's just, for those who may have wanted to travel in that part of the world that are up in the age I am, it's going to eliminate that for awhile.

aa^r	Right.	sv	I think it's going to be too dangerous to be any place in there.

sd	Well, you know, I mean, I actually lived in Beirut from sixty eight to eighty four .	bh	did you?

sd	And so, I mean, it's been dangerous for sometime.	aa	Yes.

sd	I'm not sure that it's changed that much.	aa	Yeah.

ar	It really hasn't.	b	It hasn't .

sd	so that many of the countries Turkey and Syria are the same as they were for traveling.	sd	I've been to north Africa a lot but not,

sd	so even when things were good in the Middle East, Americans weren't really given visas to go into Baghdad.	b	Right.

sd	but it's a very beautiful part, very interesting historically, of course, which was my interest art history.	b	Sure. For this little project they're doing.

fc^r	Right.	fc	In fact, I just talked to the director awhile ago,

fc	and, you know, have a good business trip.	fc	Thank you.

fc	thank you.	fc	Bye bye.

ng	but I never did feel that Russia was a big threat to us.	ba	There you go .

qo	What about you?	qy	have you ever read the book NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR?

ny	Yes.	bk	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you could picture it as being Russia versus the U S during the whole time

b	Right.	sd	and what they would do is they would get their prisoners and kill them as soon as they got them because the people there could realize that they were the same as themselves, you know,

b	Right.	sv	And you didn't want that to happen.

b	Yeah.	sd	and then you have the people inhabiting the country

b	Right.	sd	And these people are the same as you are.

b	Right.	sv	And what goes on is that every time somebody attacks a country, supposedly U S or Russia attacks a country, it's not going to be within the borders of the U S or Russia itself.

b	Right.	sv(^q)	You know. It's like you're not going to go in there and say no,

aa^r	uh huh.	b	Right.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	You know, and now you know, they're saying were I guess, other leaders were still crazier about it, you know,

aa^r	uh huh.	sd	And the U S has.

aa^r	uh huh.	sd	like they were saying they go, you know,

b	Right.	sv	The U S S R wouldn't do it. Because they got too much at stake.

sd	but yet it didn't happen.	b	Yeah.

qh	I mean why not.	sv	Well, my point of view to that is, is that I mean the attack would have been so complete on Iraq if they had.

b	Uh huh.	sv	that would have meant a total attack of the Iraq country within, you know, three hours of when the weapon was shot.

bf	so you think it was fear that kept Iraq from using it.	aa	Right.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	I mean, if he were to use that, he might as well commit suicide because he's going to be captured and, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	But the U. S. also makes a lot of, you know, treaties with other people like saying, okay,

b	Right.	^q	We'll overthrow you,

sv	I don't think we've done that to Saddam Hussein yet.	aa	, no.

sv	But yet you know, as the parallel Russia is that Saddam Hussein is using the chemical warfare on his own people.	b	Yeah.

aa	And I guess that makes sense what you said that, within their own borders they feel freer to do what they feel necessary.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	like like they, like the U. S. goes and goes into Panama

b	Uh huh.	sv	because what happens is,

b	Right.	sv	and, you know, life ends there

sv	Well or that it resolves anything in the end. That that negotiations couldn't resolve.	b	You know.

qy^d	Well, it sounds like neither one of us thinks that the Soviet Union is a real threat to the U S.	nn	No,

b	Right.	sv	A lot of like dancers and stuff like that.

b	Right.	sd	They said that they wouldn't leave Russia unless Russia told them that they couldn't travel anymore and compete.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's just that, you know, they won't let you get out

aa^r	right.	b	So, well,

fc	well thanks.	fc	Nice talking to you.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

fp	and I'm in California visiting right now.	fp	Hi, Judy.

b	okay.	sv^t	We got a great topic .

qy^t	Should we give it a try?	na^t	I guess we might as well .

bk^r	Okay.	b^m	Okay.

qw	So, so what changes have you seen? .	t1	What changes,

aa	Well, actually, that's what I was thinking too.	b	Yeah.

qh	Is it, perhaps, woman in politics is for the future.	sv^m	well, yeah.

sv	Because I don't see that really yet in positions of power, really.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	not many.

qr	do you work in private corporation or government?	sd	I did work in government.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And before that I worked in a bank for eight years.

b^m	Uh huh.	sd	And now I'm retired.

sv	That's the best status.	aa	That's right.

b	Yes,	qw	Which do you work in, excuse me?

sd	A government.	b^m	A government.

sd	And I work in academia before.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I mean, in a since, perhaps, she gets protected a lot because it's almost like a token.	b	Oh.

sd	but she's a good paper pusher.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you know she should be more technical for what she does.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I think that's sort of unfortunate, because it doesn't really help the cause in the long run .	b	Right.

sv	and teaching I still see that that's where most of the woman are.	qy^d	In teaching.

sv	you know, and it's always been that way.	sv	But not at the college level.

aa	Right.	sd	We live in a college town

b	Uh huh.	sd	And there are woman there

bf	Not the deans and things like that.	ar	Well, they did have one woman dean

qr	and do you think it's because women aren't qualified or just don't, or don't want the job or just aren't hired for the jobs.	ng	None of the above .

sv	They're just not selected somehow.	aa	I think they're not selected,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, of course, at this university,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And that's where the high pay is.

sd	but yet I know too.	sv	well, I think there are more than there used to be.

aa	I'm sure there are, yeah.	sv	But they may not go into teaching,

sd	but, it , I suppose in a since I was surprised when they told me they majored in engineering.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't know that many men that have majored in engineering, either.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean because I'm in the humanities it's just,	b	uh huh .

sd	You know, it's not, it's not something that I tend to hear about.	b	Yeah.

b	But, yeah,	sd	Well, I met one one day that, had just joined the faculty in agricultural engineering

ba	that's interesting,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, I suppose that it's difficult to really say why because, you know, there probably are a limited number of women who are interested in the subject and well qualified.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Maybe they don't apply for the job.	sd	I don't know.

sv	Which could be, you know, partially cultural anyway.	aa	That could be.

sv	So that it might be circularly being the same problem of expecting not to get hired for the good jobs anyway,	b	Uh huh.

qh	so why spend your time getting qualified.	aa	That's right.

sd	and, in our case we actually have one father who works part time, a six, hour day so that he can take the kids or kid, I'm not sure, to school in the morning and be home when the children or child, comes home in the afternoon.	b	Oh.

sd	but he did say that because he was in the humanities and he's now working in more of a technical situation that he had trouble finding a job.	b	uh huh.

sv	but still it's interesting that, you know, he, he's been doing this evidently for a good number of years.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's unusual.	sd	I know one, gal

b	Yeah	sd	And then they had a child

qy^d	he was, even before they had children.	ny	Uh huh.

sv	now that really is .	sd	She was a little perturbed about it.

bh	she was.	na	At one time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	she's moved away. I don't know how it is now

sv	I mean I think it would, it would strike one as strange if there's no reason for somebody to stay home that,	b	Uh huh.

aa	Yeah	sd(^q)	Because her statement was, I told him let's face it

sv	because if she had offered to stay home we wouldn't have thought anything stran ,	sv	She wouldn't have be,

sv	So, so we're, carrying our own prejudice .	sv	it wouldn't have been a doubter .

sv	I guess we can't win .	aa	Huh uh.

sv	Because yeah, if, if somebody does if and breaks tradition you're surprised.	aa	That's right .

ba	dear.	sv	I think maybe more men would like to be if they weren't put down so badly .

sd	yet I must say it's not one that I've given a great deal of, of thought to	aa	Huh uh.

sd	but, in the past.	aa	No,

sv	It's, one of those things that, you know, seems to happen.	qo	How do you feel your career has gone?

sd	I don't feel for the most part that I've been discriminated against.	bh	You don't.

sd	but I don't like administration.	bk	Oh.

sv	So then I'm, probably a poor example, although, you know, I was an administrator and could still be I suppose.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was terrible.

qy	you were more ambitious than they would let you be?	na	Right.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	The promotions came

sv	and that's true that, you know, sometimes other people get higher increments, for, you know, even,	b	uh huh.

sd	and, I just sort of ignore the administrative, part of it since I didn't like it when I had to do it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think it's Friday night.	b	Uh huh,

sd	the one with the two little girls in it, what's it called.	b	Yeah,

sd	Or three little girls.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	b	yeah.

qw	What's it called?	no	I don't know,

ba	there you go.	b	Yeah.

sd	I really like that show.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	and, we can watch those all night sometimes if,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

sd	lately I've been getting into talk shows	bh	yeah?

sd^e	just, you know, controversy and,	qw	Which which one does, which ones do you like?

sd	Just really whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it depends on the subject actually.	b	Right.

sd	where it's more interesting.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Some of them get pretty boring	b	Yeah.

qy	Is he one of the talk show guys?	ny	Yeah,

qy	Maury Povich?	nn	no,

^h	let's see.	sd	his first name's like Marlo or Marlin,

sd	I like more controversial subjects, I think.	sd	I don't either.

b	But, I mean, yeah .	qy	Do you watch cartoons a lot?

nn	No.	b^m	No.

sd	B Y U.	bh	really?

sd	so everything keeps me pretty busy.	b	Uh huh.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

sd	My dad taught there for a while,	bh	really?

ny	yeah.	qw	What did he teach?

sd	speech pathology.	sd	that's what I'm majoring in.

ba	wow!	b	Yeah,

qw	How long have you been there?	sd	this is my first semester.

qy^d	so you wouldn't know him.	ny	Yeah.

sd	but, he worked there for like fifteen years and then part time U T D at night.	b	yeah.

sd	and then they stopped funding the program there. 	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so now he's at Texas Women's University.	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	qy	is he teaching speech pathology there?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Okay,

sd	Allen Bird.	qy^m	Bird?

ny	Uh huh.	qy	B I R D?

na	Right.	b	Yeah,

sd	and he has like little stuffed animals with them and like little cards and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sd	I remember.

b	Yeah.	qw	what are you studying?

sd	but I'm thinking about changing right now .	b	Uh huh.

sd	so if I decide to stay in nursing I'll probably come and go to T W U.	bh	yeah?

ny^m	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah

sd	My dad used to teach at Collier, too.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	Nursing is.

b	Uh huh.	qy	So, you're at Baylor?

sd^e	I'm at B Y U, in Utah .	bk	okay.

b	Yeah.	qy^d	Brigham Young.

ny	Yeah.	bk	I see,

sd	and I'm so excited .	bh	really?

sd	I'm so homesick.	qy	Do you like S ,

nd	It's in Provo actually.	bh	is it?

sd^e	I really like it out here.	bh	Do you?

sd	But, I, I've been away too long.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess you would consider that a home repair.	b	Huh uh.

qw	What is your most recent,	sd	We just did that, too.

qy^g	You did that recently too, uh,?	ny	Yes.

qy	Does it make a big difference?	ny	yes

b	Huh uh.	sd	Completely.

qy^g	That's neat isn't it.	ny	Yeah.

sd	but we learned how to retile bathtubs and, just all kinds of things that are unusual.	b	Huh uh.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And, we did that a different color also.

b	Yeah.	sd	Of course, being a woman most of these things were done by the men.

b	Huh uh.	sd	so I wasn't directly involved

qy^g	It's nice to not have a drip through from the roof, isn't it .	ny	Yeah .

sv	and, I think it's neat for young people to learn how to, take care of a household, you know, like, fixing dripping faucets, and putting in panes of glass and stuff like that.	b	Huh uh.

qy	do you like it better?	na	I like it so much better.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, it really does.

ba	That's nice.	sd	It's been fun.

sv	Nice to have it come out positive and look, look good.	b	Yeah.

sd	and , so } that was a really positive,	b	Huh uh.

sv	and it seems to me like it's probably more expensive to put down linoleum almost than it is to put down carpet.	b	Huh uh.

sv	Kind of depends on the quality of carpet, I suppose,	b	Yeah.

bf	Well, it sounds like you have some pretty good experiences with, home repair.	aa	Huh uh.

fc	Happy home repairing.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye Bye.	fc^m	Bye Bye.

qy	Did you have anything in mind that, you'd like to share?	sd	Well, I, just had a Christmas Around The World party the other night and had some hors d'oeuvres.

bk	Oh.	sd	And I fixed, a crab meat spread that is real good and real easy.

ba	Ooh, that sounds good.	sd	it's like, eight ounces of cream cheese softened,

b	Uh huh.	ad	and you mix it with one tablespoon onion juice and one tablespoon lemon juice, one tablespoon worcester sauce and mix it and spread it out onto a plate.

qy	One tablespoon of worcester?	ny	Uh huh.

bk	Okay.	ad	And then you take and, cover that with drained crab meat mixed with one of the small bottles of chili sauce and spread it over the top and spread it on Triscuits crackers.

qw	How much chili sauce did you say?	sd	It's one of the small bottles.

sv	That would be a lot.	nd	Well, it's about eight ounces.

bh	Is it?	ny	uh huh.

qy^g	this would make a lot, right?	ny	Yeah,

qw	And how much crab meat did you use?	sd	One tin. Of the flake.

b	One, One can of flake.	ad	And drain it real good.

qy	Have you ever used the, imitation, yet?	ny	Yes,

sd	and they said it is a fish product.	b	Uh huh,

sv	So, therefore, you really don't have a very long life, you know once you buy it.	b	Right.

sv	I thought, so, you know, they should put some directions on some of these new things they're making that you really don't know what the shelf life is.	aa	That's very true.

b	You know.	aa	Very true.

ba	that's a good idea.	b	Yeah.

qw	Whose was that?	sd	It, was, Lawry's, I believe, or Lawler's.

x	,	qy	do you have a Sam's Wholesale Warehouse up there?

na^r	right.	bk	Yeah,

ba	that sounds good	b	Yeah.

qy^d	That must be the ones that look like they're packaged for a restaurant.	ny	Yes,

bk	Okay,	sd	and they have the little papers between them.

b	Right.	sd	And I think they're, what, about nine dollars and something.

qy^g	It's frozen in the first place, right?	ny	Yes.

qy^g	it is frozen, isn't it?	ny	Yes,

qy^d	And then you can re freeze.	nd	And I thaw it

ba	Hey, that sounds great.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And that's my favorite.	bh	Is it?

sd	And I really don't care for desserts that well other than one piece of it.	sd	I love to eat it,

sd	that's the thing I hate most about entertaining is thinking of what I'm going to serve.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	and I have one of these kitchens that's the center of the house	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so no matter where they're at, your company can see you cooking. Which is funny.	aa	That's right.

sv	I decided it looks better in BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS than it does in practicality.	b	Yeah .

sd	But, what I have learned in the, ten months we've lived here, is that when I entertain, I have to have my foods all prepared and in the oven with everything through, ready to serve. Because with the open area, you don't want someone from your dining room seeing your mess, like you said.	b	Right.

sv	So you have to have the picturesque kitchen, you know, right out of the magazine.	sd	Well, I like to have mine all done anyway, because then I want to party, too.

aa	You're right.	b	You know.

^q	we have the chairs on the other side of the counter for guests.	b	Correct .

sd	But at our point of life we know many of the people we're entertaining well enough that they know, you know, it's very much at home type situation.	b	Right.

qy	so you watch DAVID LETTERMAN?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I, I live in a dorm	b	Uh huh.

sd	and our favorite T V show is CHEERS.	b	really,

b	Okay,	ba	That's hilarious.

sd	like here they show it, like, every day.	b	serious .

sd	And then, like, on Thursdays is the night where the new ones come on.	ba	that's cool.

sd	what we do is, we stay up till around one thirty,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so we just stay and watch that.	sv	TWILIGHT ZONE rules, man.

br	The what?	sv^r	TWILIGHT ZONE rules.

b	Yeah,	sd	That's all.

sd	I used to live in the house that the guy owned.	qy	Are you serious?

qw	but, But, so what do you like, why do you like DAVID LETTERMAN?	ba	That's psychedelic.

br	He's got what?	sd	Curly hair

ad^r	wait .	ba	Cool,

sd(^q)	I go, you better be	ba	That's hilarious.

qy	do you watch SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE yesterday?	nn	No,

ny	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah

sd	you missed WAYNE'S WORLD.	bh	Are you serious?

sv	WAYNE'S WORLD was pretty cool.	aa	They're awesome.

sd	see, like, like, every time we walk in the room we turn on the T V because we don't want to do anything like study or anything,	bh	really?

sd	like, like, when I was in high school I used to do, like, my homework in front of the T V set, you know.	bh	Really?

br	What?	sv	Kind of annoying like, in front of T V, like trying to do homework, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	Trying to write an essay, you start talking about, you know, like, IN LIVING COLOR or something,

sd	so it really didn't matter .	ba	Cool,

sd	and it worked .	ba	Cool,

sv	Like, the news we don't watch, because they're boring.	aa	No,

sd(^q)	I mean it was like, haven't I seen this episode before, you know.	aa	I know,

aa	I know.	sv(^q)	It's, like, man.

sd	see the thing is, like here they just give you like local news, okay.	b	Yeah.

sd	Like, a house burned down in this little town.	b	Oh.

sd	they're going to spend more time on doing a thing on a cross guard who's a hundred and five years old, than they are on anything else, you know.	b	Yeah.

qy	do you watch STAR TREK?	ng	I haven't seen it in years,

sv	well I used to hate STAR TREK.	bh	Yeah?

sd	like, like, when I was, like, in high school and junior high school, I used to hate it	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, like, the new ones are pretty cool because, because they got like, like like especially things, that, like, fuck with your mind.	bh	Really?

sd	Because what happened is, like they have this hologram right, where you walk in	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you can touch everything and stuff.	bh	Are you serious?

sd	but, you know, it's something to pass the time, till we do	ba	That's cool.

sd	and then we watch football.	b	yeah,

qw	Which basketball?	qw^m	Which basketball?

qr	College or,	ny	Yeah,

sd	we got two teams of the A C C going there.	bh	yeah?

sd	We got Duke and North Carolina.	ba	Cool.

sd(^q)	like for example yesterday s , some girl goes, do you dares want to go to a picnic, right.	b	Uh huh.

^q	today we're just going to dedicate ourself to watching golf and bowling, you know,	b	golf,

sd	I mean, Somebody told me, like, that, like, you can watch baseball,	sd	me, too.

sv	and the actual play time that there is is five minutes.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Because the play time is when the pitcher pitches the ball and it goes to the catcher or when the pitcher pitches and it's hit.	b	Yeah.

b	Okay,	aa	That's true.

sv	and that's, like, you know, five seconds for the whole play	aa	Yeah,

sd	but when I went home that's all, like, they had on T V	bh	really?

sd	And T V in Argentina's really bad.	b	really.

sd	because, I wanted to go to school here.	ba	that's cool.

b	Yeah,	qw	How long did you live there?

sv	they have better computer science up here than they do down there.	bk	Oh .

sd	and my father works for I B M,	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, we came to the United States in nineteen seventy six, seventy seven and, we lived here for about seven years	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	And so then I said, I'm going to move back up there to go to college.	ba	That's cool.

sd	so I did my undergraduate in two years.	bh	really?

sd^t	well, we've been talking for five minutes.	ba	That's cool.

sd^t	That's the only obligation we have.	ba	Groovy.

ad	And, well, tell your dad that now he owes you five bucks.	aa	Yeah,

fc	Okay.	fc^m	Okay.

fc	nice talking to you.	fc	Yeah,

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

o	Okay Brian.	fp	Hi,

fp	Fine, thanks .	ba	Good,

qy	Are you a total banner?	qy^h	Total banner?

ny	Yeah.	nn	No,

bk	Okay.	sv	But, I think that there ought to be some control,

qy	so you think that, maybe a five day waiting period for handguns or that stuff would be legitimate?	no	Well, I don't know if a five day waiting period would be legitimate.

sv	but they'd just have to mail it to you, I suppose,	ar	Well, I don't think you can mail guns through the mail.

b	Okay.	sd	I think that's against the law ever since Kennedy was assassinated .

bh	yeah?	qo	So, how do you feel about guns?

sv	and I think that's the problem that we need to address is why these people want to kill other people rather than the instrument they particularly used in the assault	b	Uh huh.

na	Sure.	qo	Then, how do you propose that we prohibit those types of individuals from gaining access to guns?

sv	but I think banning semiautomatic twenty two rifles is a bit on the extreme side.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And a total ban on guns would just leave guns in the hands of criminals who don't care what the rules are anyway.	bk	Okay.

sv	or you could do it just for fun, you know, kind of like a game,	sv	Well, I think that the police, or law enforcement have a need because of the tight quarters they might find themselves,

sv	I think that I should have a right to own a handgun.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Not a automatic, semiautomatic.	aa	Yes,

sv	but I think a person needs a way of defending themselves.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the guy came after him with that big knife.	ny	Yes.

sd	just one shot.	aa	Yes,

qw	So how is work going?	sd	Very fine,

qy^g	They don't let you take guns to work, do they?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's still that's still, you can still do that down here.

qy	Can they be, Is it concealed,	ng	you can't,

qy	Has to be on the hip?	na^m	It has to be on the hip .

qo	what do you do with your credit cards?	b	Oh .

ba	jeez.	sd	they're, they're really bad for us.

bf	you had them for each of the individual stores.	aa	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I had an American Express, American Express Gold, an Optima, all the different department stores, two Visas, two MasterCards .

ba	gee.	sd	I mean, I had,

aa	sure.	sv	because, see, the more credit cards you have, the more people offer them to you.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	And the more you use them, the more they send them to you.

qy^g	But each of these had an annual fee also, right.	na	Exactly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I know the Green card was like thirty five, forty five dollars a year.

ar	forty five.	sv	Which was a lot,

sd	so I sent back all of mine, except the ones that were free.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and actually I then got a Discover card since they pay you back.	b	Uh huh,

b	Oh.	sd	I ended up going through a credit counseling service because my husband and I just don't handle credit very well

b	yeah.	sd	and, when you do that, they automatically, once you start with their service, they close your accounts out.

b	I see.	sd	So, I'm still paying on all these accounts,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I would prefer to keep it that way.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's it.

sd	Only once in my life have I not paid.	sv	I think that's a really good way to handle it, because that way, if you paid off every month, you never have to worry about, well, how much do I have to pay these guys, you know, this month, you know.

sd	so that you know, if I were smarter, I would have that same amount in savings and get the interest, which I don't do,	b	Yeah.

sd	the thought of adding, you know, X percent to the price of what I buy, I can't accept.	b	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and we probably still have about another year to go before we're completely out of the hole.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But I think they way the whole economy is going right now, it's just not good to be in debt.

sd	I would, that would be a very scary feeling for me to know that I was, you know, juggling payments to different people I guess because I never experienced it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's just, a mental concept that I have. Yeah,	b	Yeah.

b^r	uh huh.	sd(^q)	And I thought, this is not right.

bf	and you're coming out of it all right.	aa	I, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've learned that credit cards are extremely dangerous in my hand and my husband's too, because he's the same way I am.

b	Uh huh.	sd	well, when we buy on credit we just don't have a concept of how much money we're spending until the bill comes in.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And then all of a sudden you look at the bill

qy	do you use them, more judiciously?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and that paid for a new transmission

b	Uh huh.	sd	and things like that.

qy^d	Clothing, sales.	ny	Yeah.

sd	Sales I find are a pain.	b	Yeah.

bf	Like I said, it sounds like you've really got it under control.	sd	I admire you for having that mind set for not, not even getting, you know, past the thirty days,

sd	and I guess I had, you know, not really counted on it quite at that point	b	Uh huh.

sd	I was very uncomfortable.	ba	I can imagine.

sd(^q)	and I'm going jeez, that's outrageous,	b	Yeah.

sd	and and, you know, but still, I mean, I figured I didn't need those items if it cost me sixty dollars more to have them.	b	yeah.

sv	Groceries for a week.	aa	Yeah,

b^m	Yeah.	sd	I think about all the money that we've spent on interest on all of our credit cards,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's just incredible.

qy	But now did you use to not feel so badly because you could take it off your income tax?	nd	We've never been able to take it off our income tax.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and before that, I never owned a home or anything,

b^r	right.	sd	So, really, it was always just money thrown away.

ba	jeez.	sd	And I never really thought about it because,

bf	You were good at it .	aa	Yeah,

sd	I suspect that, you know, thinking about it and looking at my friends and the number of credit cards that they use and, you know, the amount that I know they buy, I guess probably a lot of them are in a similar situation, and, you know, just don't talk about it.	aa	Yeah.

aa^r	uh huh,	sv	You know, for a lot of people it is very personal.

sv	and especially if you don't feel you're handling it quite right or that somebody might make fun of you or that it would be,	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sd	And I would much rather own my own home than be renting it like we're doing.

aa^r	uh huh.	sd	We're renting a house.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, you know, right now with the way our credit card situation is, there's nobody in the world that's going to give us a mortgage on a house.

sv	but, once I suppose you prove yourself by paying this off next year you'll be in very good shape.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Hopefully within five years we'll be in our own home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I'm not really counting on it real soon.

qy	Have you faced, elderly care yet, nursing home care for any of your parents?	ny	Unfortunately, yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we had a review today

b	Yes.	ny	so, yes,

sd	and they were to the point that they only lived, both of them, about six weeks once they got in.	bh	really?

sd^e	And I believe that was one of the hardest things I ever did. In my life.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that, it just, you know, it's absolutely devastating.	b	Right.

qw	What have you found in dealing with the nursing homes?	sv	Well, all the horror stories you hear about them I think are true.

aa	Yes .	sd	you know, we've looked around

b	uh huh.	sv	when you think about it, for what you're paying a hospital for well, even not as much care.

aa	Yes.	sv	It's not that expensive, really.

sd	well, there's a little bit of difference in the two between my mother and my mother in law.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, one of the things that, you know, I had discovered is that if they knew that I came in there at all different hours, they got much better care than if,	b	Uh huh.

sd	when I started out with my mother in law, because she was in there first, I would go certain hours	b	Uh huh.

sd	And if I'd pop in unexpectedly, I discovered, you know, they did better.	bh	really?

sd^e	And, you know, a couple of times with my mother in law, I would catch something not being taken care of. And, you know, would have to rate,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I got to where, I knew then when my mother was in you know, not to go the same time all the time. Because they would,	b	Yeah.

sd	and for some reason I just went back, and on my own went around the different floors.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they did not come across as well as, you know, what they had originally shown me,	ba	Well, I'll be darned.

sd	We put her in another one that I went a couple of times when they weren't expecting me and saw, and, you know, was much, better pleased with the situation.	b	Uh huh.

aa	you do.	sd	I know my mother's in a unit that's mainly Alzheimer's

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, we're convinced that she probably would be better off in a geriatric.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the fact that these people , they're up and around,

qy	Does your mother have Alzheimer's?	no	well, who knows.

b	Uh huh.	no	And, we don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and whether it's Alzheimer's or what it is nobody really knows,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's, basically the same.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but she has gone down steadily since she has been in,

qy	Did she know that she was going to a nursing home?	br	I'm sorry?

qy^r	Did she know that she was going to a nursing home?	nn	no,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and we says, you know, mom, you know, if you get a, you get better, you've got to have the care, the doctor insisted on it, you know, if you get better that you could come out.

qy^t	do you want to give a start on it?	sd	Well, I think for me,

b	Uh huh.	sd	South Alabama,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so I was very much a part of , you know, what was going on there.

b	Uh uh.	sd	my parents are pretty active

ba	definitely.	sv	There's still a lot , you know, to be accomplished,

b	Uh huh.	sd	because I can remember, you know, separate public restrooms and separate water fountains and sitting in the back of the bus and everything.

sd	Now see, we don't have any of that because, well, like, we live in the country in Clarion County	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, we really didn't have things like that going on that we, you know, ran into.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess when I think of social changes, I think more of, , visiting habits of families and such.	b	Yeah.

sv	but it's not quite the same as, what it was, say, twenty years ago, thirty years ago.	aa	Right.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And so we were always at family in different p , family members' homes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But even now, you know, they don't even do that.

sv	I think has a lot to do with it.	sv	Well, and they're so busy.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	people's personal schedules are so busy.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	a lot of it has to do, I think with more women working

aa^r	right.	sd	in our family, you know, twenty years ago, not that many of the women worked.

aa	yeah.	sv	And now, almost all the women work.

aa	yeah.	sv	And, so that means, you know, , a lot of the social visiting and all was, I think, probably instigated by women at that time.

sv	because when you work you don't really care to go out and visit as much.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But even just social visits, people don't do that anymore.

sv^e	they don't do as much.	sv	And people don't feel comfortable just to drop in on people anymore.

sv	You have to make arrangements or have an invitation or,	aa	Right,

aa^r	yeah.	sv	I guess we don't not to invade people's privacy or whatever.

sd	I know our children mostly are scattered out at a distance, so we really don't have that even.	sd	Well, out of fifteen grandchildren in my family, only two of us don't live within fifty miles.

bh	really?	sd	and most live within ten or twenty.

ba	that's pretty good.	sv	but you know, that is rural, it's a rural family

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I'm just one of the two out of fifteen that don't live you know, even in the same state.

qy^d	Well, apparently there must be work available, for those that are,	ny	Yeah.

sd	but, to make a good living, there really, around here, there just isn't too much.	b	Uh huh.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	Probably the job market and the, the economy has always affected, social change.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Probably.

sd	and I couldn't really,	sv	Well, I think just, also, you know, the women's movement, too, has affected a lot of social change.

aa	definitely.	sv	people marry,

sv	Some good and some bad .	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	now, again, where I'm from in Alabama that's not necessarily true because people do still get married right out of high school.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But now out here in Texas where I am now, that's very unusual.

sv	They'd rather get their life started first before,	sv	Most people I mean get, go to college or at least get a job

sv	and if you're busy with school I think it's really difficult for a family.	aa	Right.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	Because it affects child care

sd	and one's one	b	Right.

sd	and the children seem quite adjusted.	sd	Well, and you know, they're, they're saying right now, we just now are seeing the effects of day care on the generation that's just now coming into the work force and in their twenties.

aa	uh huh.	sv	They are the first generation that basically grew up with day care.

aa	yeah.	sv	And so, you know, it remained to be seen exactly what that does.

sd	so this will be new for me .	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the others I'm too far away to help them out at all.	qw	Where do they live?

sd	A son in Connecticut.	sv	Well, they're not too far, though.

sv	and, it's too far to, you know, really go too often.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Maryland, maybe five hour drive.	sd	Well, I live like fourteen hours from home.

sv	That's worse yet.	sd	In fact I'm, I'm driving tomor , I'm, I'm driving home tomorrow, so,

bh	are you really?	sd	To go be there for the Fourth of July.

sv	You're young.	sd	So I can make it.

qw	How old are you?	sd	I'm thirty five.

sv	well you're young enough yet to ,	h	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's pretty much like get there

sv	It's work to get there.	sd	It's just not that pleasant.

b	Yeah.	sd	Even with other people, I basically just don't like to drive that far.

sd	And it still took a long time because it's not a high speed airplane.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But they enjoyed in thoroughly.	qw^t	When you say you're in the second phase of this project, what is the second phase of it?

sd^t	You have to call from a different,	bk	Oh.

qy^t	Are you ready to start?	ny	Yes.

bk	Okay .	qy	Have you recently bought a new car Catherine?

sd	and it doesn't seem like it's that old.	bk	Oh.

sd	Seems like I just bought it.	ba	wow.

sd	and I bought it, in, eighty eight	sd	Well, I , the last car we got was a used car.

sd	I really will do that the next time, I buy it too.	sd	But, mine was a year old,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we bought it for very functional purposes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we bought a station wagon.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but we wanted one that could carry a lot of equipment.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I've never been sorry,

ba	that's wonderful.	sd	however the need for that kind of car has changed now,

b	okay.	sd	and, while it is still good, and it's quite serviceable, and I'll drive it until it no longer is reliable.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And probably then some .

b	Sure.	sd	I think that I would like to,

b	Right.	sd	I'm sold on Nissans.

b	Uh huh.	sd	a or foreign cars actually.

qy	Is that how you,	qy^h	its reliability.

bh	Isn't that a shame.	sd	But I had a Ford Escort that absolutely needed taps the day we got it.

ba	That's sorry.	sd	you know, I mean it was ready for the graveyard.

ba	My word.	sd	And I spent as much on that car in twelve months as I spent for the car.

ba	mercy.	sd	and that was just trying to hold us,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it just was not deliv ,

aa	Sure.	sv(^q)	and you say, no thanks.

aa	That's right.	sd	So, I just trusted the CONSUMER REPORTS and the auto, reports inst ,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	had my son who knows a lot about that, study them thoroughly,

b	Uh huh.	sd	An Escort definitely was not among them.

ba	Wow.	sd	the Nissan came

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it served our needs.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it's comfort.

qw	Who makes that car?	sd	Nissan.

qrr	or is it European	nn	No.

bh	it is Japanese.	ny	Uh huh,

bk	Okay,	b	uh huh.

sd	I didn't know.	b	Yeah.

b	Okay .	sv	I mean, you know, every one of us have two sides .

aa^r	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

^h	if, if I had the car I wanted.	qw	and why?

fe	Gee.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Probably, let's see, I like the looks of the Lincoln Town car .	b	Uh huh,

sd	That's a, Ford product,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, I would get hung up by my boot straps if I ra , if I ever mentioned the Ford product in my family.	b	Uh huh.

b	yeah.	sv	Really was.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I really have not seen,

ad	Can I put you on hold for one minute?	aa	Of course.

sd	They hung up.	b	Okay .

sd	well, the comfort of a large car that the security of a large car. and the luxuries of a large car.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think I would opt to go with a bronze. Which is probably closest to gold that you can get .	b	Uh huh,

aa	Yeah.	ba	Good.

sv	and it's cooler I believe, too, when you're driving in,	b	Uh huh.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But if I had the little red C R X , I guess the interior would have to be black leather

b	Oh.	sd	I'd just go back to my teenage years and just throw all my experience to the wind .

ad	can you, hang on again hon ,	aa	Uh huh.

sd	I've got the phones for lunch hour.	b	Uh huh.

ad	Just don't mind me if I bounce back and forth.	bd	That's okay.

qrr	or is it talk shows.	nn	No,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But if I'm going to be traveling in that car for any period of time, I want some real good classical music.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I love classical music,

aa	That's true.	sd	So I do love classical music

qy	Do you listen t , Do you listen to W R R?	ny	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	W R R and the Oasis are the two that I listen to, more than anything else.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I do like them.

sv^e	those are nice.	sv	Those compact discs, really are good for cars because they don't melt,

b	Uh huh.	sv	they don't warp.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, there's nothing in there that can wrap around the, rollers or anything.

sd^t	we are talking about computers this morning.	sd	I'm a firm believer in having lots of them.

sd	I have a Zenith here	b	Uh huh.

sd	and at home I have a Commodore and a Zenith,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and my wife has an A T and T Twelve Hundred, I believe it is.	ba	Good grief.

sd	I have written some, programs in Basic whereby I can select any number of, drawings and from that extract the numbers that have appeared the most	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have another program in which I can look at the cyclical, appearance of these numbers to see if there's anything that's consistent on that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then it generates a complete set of numbers so that all combinations are covered	b	Uh huh.

sd	so this is what I do most of the time,	qy^d	That's what you do on at least one of your machines

na	On my Commodore	b	on your Commodore.

sd	and I write all my letters	b	Yeah.

sd	my, thoughts in my head come in bursts of about a paragraph at a time,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I get them all down,	b	Yes.

sv	you can go back and, correct it very easily	aa	Yes,

qo	So how about you, Charles?	sd	Well, I do an awful lot of preparation of documents,

b	Uh huh.	sd	some of them I do on a Sun,

b	Uh huh.	sv	now maybe we don't call these personal computers,

qw	So, where, may I ask where you work, sir?	sd	I work for the government in Washington.

qrr^d	or what, what section of it,	sd	in, in, in an obscure part of the defense department.

sd	I work at the Applied Research Lab here on campus,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, my field is underwater acoustics	b	Uh huh.

sd	and there's a lot of things we can do with computers into, studying how, things vary in the water, you know and, taking advantage of them, and so forth,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I am retiring at the End of December, excuse me.	qy	are, are you, are you also a professor,

sd	but I, I'm a full time researcher	b	Yes.

sd	and it's, been a very, very interesting career, believe me.	ba	I can believe.

sd	but I have similar machines at home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I would consider doing some more consulting when I get home	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I play in several symphony orchestras	b	Yes.

sd	and so } I have a lot of external, interests	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I do want to get much more deeply into computer work, because obviously the world is going to be controlled run and operated by computers in the future.	b	Yes.

sd	and the amount of work that we're doing and the depth of things that we are studying can basically only be handled by computers, because, it's so much involved	b	Uh huh.

sd	Here again let's say I'm starting to getting ready, in preparation for retirement	b	Yeah.

sd	For many, many years I had a full size acoustics, study laboratory where I could take recordings and, perform experiments with them and so forth,	b	Uh huh.

sd	fellow named Steve Blazey was the fellow I worked with for many, many years	b	Uh huh.

o	well, let's see.	qw	How many,

sd	Five.	ba	lord.

sv	Well any number is nice, let me tell you.	sv	Well, I kind of decided that single children that, that's not parenting,

sv	It's not as fair to the children either, I do not think.	ad	Well, do not tell that to all my friends.

b	Oh.	sd	I am into getting through the day.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And when I take care of some people's kids, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	when they have teachers' holidays, and that kind of stuff, I will take my friends' kids, that are usually in day care,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you can spot them, because they have no idea how to hang out and mess around.

sv	How to just entertain themselves.	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	b	Really.

sv	and you take one that's used to being, busy having something to do all the time, it makes a big difference.	sd	It's not a problem for my two,

qy^d	keeps you busy.	nd	They can find things to do and mess around, and plot and scheme and everything else.

ba	Well, that's great.	qy	did all five of yours complete college?

sd	they built a home just a couple miles from us.	qw	Well, how did you go about selecting a college, then? .

sv	and then, then start looking for schools.	qy	Do you think that what they say that they are interested in is, at eighteen is going to be what they are ultimately ultimately graduating at.

sd	and we talked him into going local here first.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He went to aeronautical, just learning to work on engines and that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they build and rebuild non jet engines.	qo	How about the other three who went?

sd	and she got really the same basic education that she wanted.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they have all really got really good jobs.	qy	When they were, like in junior high and high school, I mean, did they have an idea that they were definitely going to go to college and,

sd	I, I always thought she would change her mind, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	because if they get an education and are willing to go where the jobs are, they can make you know, a much better income.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, that boggles, my mind.	b	Yeah,

qy	did you go to college?	ny	Yeah,

sv	See it makes a difference.	sd^e	I went, four years to undergrad at University of Nebraska at Lincoln, because Lincoln is where my parents live.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And there really was not a choice,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean the finances, dictated that you had to go there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I am not going to say I resent it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I was, well you know, one of the national merit scholarship qualifying and, you know, one of the Rhodes Scholars kids, and the whole bit,

b	Uh huh.	sd	my parents did not even discuss with me going to college out of state, or anyplace else,

b	Some place else.	sd	and I just knew that the finances, you know, would not support it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	If I had known not, I am not going to say easy, but how much less difficult than I thought it would be to get a, scholarship, to go anyplace else, I think that I would definitely, you know, have gone .

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now when I finished there, then I got a scholarship to go the Harvard University in Boston.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I think that was probably one of the best things that had ever happened,

^2	Different life styles,	sd	And I think it was probably one of the best things that ever happened to me.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now my kids, I keep saying that, you know, I would like them to go to the best school that they possibly could.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I do not know, you know, what the realities, you know, is going to look like, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I really think it's important to put these children someplace where, in addition to, you know, them getting an education, they really need you know, a socialization away from what they are raised in. Especially if you lived a pretty insular community

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, An upper class suburb of Dallas, let me tell you, It's very different.

sd	they say, you should not look at the expense of the college when you are looking.	aa	You should not.

sd	Because, they say that a lot of times you get more help, with a more expensive college.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now our children all pretty much borrowed for their school.	b	Uh huh.

qo	what do you consider an invasion of privacy?	sd^t	I was just now told that's what the topic was

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I guess recently one of the T V stations here, ran a series of, news casts on unauthorized credit card usage and how easy it was to get a person's credit card numbers. And use it

sv	It's very easy.	sd	and I was quite surprised at that.

sd	Now, I've never, I've never had that happen to me either.	sd	I don't know what I'd really do if it did.

qy	Does it bother you to give it?	nn	No,

sd	You know that they now have a, I believe it's a federal law that you do not have to give your phone number on charge tickets.	sd	One of the things that upset me when I lived in California was, they did a lot of things with your Social Security number.

b	uh huh.	sd	As a matter of fact, they even went to the point of printing our Social Security number on your driver's license.

b	Oh.	sd	And they would not cash checks unless they had your Social Security number,

b	uh huh.	sd	And I was really, you know, unhappy about that situation.

^q	I'm not going to give it to you, either .	b	Right.

aa^r	yes.	sd	You know, recently I purchased some magazines, U S NEWS and FORBES magazine.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And every since that day, I have been inundated with, you know, subscriptions to this, subscriptions to that, this news letter, this investment letter, even to the point of people calling me at home.

sd	but I get catalogs from people I've never even heard of.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I know they have to be coming from my charge cards, you know.	sv	From some list,

sd	because then I'll get catalogs that, you know, are within that range that I would never order from ordinarily,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think of how inept our post office is and how that's taking up you know, all their time to sort	^2	All their time.

sd	and they're not even paying full postage.	b	Sure.

sv	You know, and if you did away with some of that, our postal service might give better service.	sv	I think the general public would be, you know, tremendously upset if they knew how easy it is for, let's say the criminal individuals to get access to people's records, their credit cards driver's licenses, checks, things like that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't think anybody really knows what to do about it.

aa^r	no.	sv	Computers caused a lot of this, I'm sure.

sv	computers can be gotten into very easily if you really have the, the know with all, if you're, you know, so inclined to, what do I want to say, have the smarts to be able to tinker with something like that. You know, and have a basic knowledge,	b	Sure.

sv	To tap into a system.	aa	Seems as though they are,

sv	I mean, you know, our lives are on computers.	ba	Unfortunately.

sd	I resent the calls of an evening trying to sell me something.	sd	Fortunately, I haven't, been inundated with that situation yet.

sv	they understand the plight of people.	aa	That's true.

b^m	Uh huh.	sv	I agree with you in the sense that, I think that it's important for people to, also share, give something of themselves

b	Right.	sv	and, I think that there's too much in, in a way of self gratification today,

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	and there's not enough sharing.

sv	I would think that for, like people that are just filthy, filthy rich,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'm speaking about people that are like born rich,	b	Yeah.

sd	and that's all they know,	b	Yeah.

sv	if they were to work in a, I don't know, a soup kitchen or something, they would understand how other people live	b	Yeah.

sv	and, you know, on the same note if poorer people, are working to serve the community, I don't know, they probably have a better perspective of life itself.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	in fact I saw an interview on T V the other night with, Patrick Swayze,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he's making a movie in, I think it's, Calcutta or either India, somewhere where it's a very poor, poor country,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he said that people in the west,

b	Uh huh.	sd	he said that his whole idea of what's important has changed,

^2	demeanor,	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	they dwell on what they do have

ba	That's great.	sd	he said that when he comes back he knows that it, it's completely changed his life.

bf	and maybe he wasn't before,	aa	Right.

bf	and now he sees,	aa	Exactly.

sv	and I think that anybody that works in some kind of service or for the community or something, they can see, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	you don't, you can't know what you don't see, you know,	aa	Exactly right.

sv	but you, they don't know what poor is, unless they actually see it and, you know, help or something.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Uh huh.	sv	Well I know that that must be true especially if you do something along the lines of, you know, helping them learn how to survive, how to plant, how to find water

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I've seen so many, extraordinary things on T V, that people have done working in the Peace Corps and how, you know, the people of the community they worked in is so much better,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's like one person can make a difference,

b	Right.	sv	and I really believe that they can in something like that.

sd	and, if you want to send like, you know, fifty cents a day, or something like that	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you can help a child.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean there are so many scams, and things going on, you know,	aa	I know

sd	I would love to help somebody, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	but I can't bring myself to trust this, this company who is trying to do this or whatever it is, you know,	b	Right.

sv	I don't know, just today people are just so money hungry, that I think they would do anything,	aa	I know.

sv	and so you don't know what they,	sv	It's the sad life I think today.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's, it's not like it used to be even in the years of my growing up.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean I'm fifty three years old,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I have seen a town change from a town to a city and its, people, you know, grow from a small town to a large town,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you would think that more people would be better, you know share more, do more, you know, be more community oriented and all,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but if they just get more, unto themselves kind of,

^2	More self centered, uh huh.	aa	right

b	Uh huh.	sv	and we would go out and not even lock our doors and not even worry about it.

sv	But you can't do that today.	sv	But today, I mean, you know, it's like you wouldn't even think of doing that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	If you don't have bars on the window you're not even safe you know?

sd	everybody left their, doors open,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you just run, in the store,	b	Yeah.

sd	you leave your car running, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	it's been almost ten years since I moved here.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean I don't go out I don't go, outside at night, you know.	sd	I was going to say

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she had gone overseas to Tokyo,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she asked them there if there was anywhere that she shouldn't go because she was alone, you know being a girl from another country, and everything

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she said they thought for a few seconds

b	Uh huh.	sd	They said to her that even if she left her purse on the subway okay, that she would have that purse returned to her, this is how confident they were, okay, with nothing missing

ba	Wow.	b	okay,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you would think, you know, being, an American or whatever, you know, a foreigner there that, that would be all the more reason that they'd take advantage of you.

sv	that would be the exact opposite of here.	b	Okay.

sv	I mean if you leave something anywhere you might as well forget it.	sd	And she said she could tell them for fifteen minutes places not to go in, in and around Dallas,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's where she was from.

ba	That is sad.	sd	She said even choosing her apartment she had to be so careful because of being a woman alone,

sd	That's, a big, that's a big thing with me.	sd	You know she had,

sd	I'm single,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I live in Waco, okay,	b	yeah.

sd	and you either live in really low priced housing or you live on the other side of town in the high price apartments.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I live in the high price apartments simply because I feel safe here	b	Yeah.

sd	but I wouldn't be able to sleep at night	b	Yeah.

sd	and that to me is worth the extra money for me to be, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	I feel very safe where I am, you know,	sv	And that's why I think if people were more exposed to,

b	Uh huh.	sv	especially, young kids getting out of high school.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean at one time they would go into the service, to have the same exposure and, you know, to further their worldliness, so to speak. And go to see, foreign countries that they would not necessarily be able to afford to see,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it was like they said,

aa^r	right.	sv	but nowadays, they don't do that anymore.

aa	Huh uh.	sv	a lot of young men don't even, have the desire to go into the service. Or to, you know, do something for someone else.

b	Uh huh.	h	And I don't know

sd	I was talking to someone yesterday about that.	sv	the bonding process,

sd	And we were saying that the, the basic family is disrupted these days,	aa	It very definitely is.

sv	and having that mother there, that base, I think, was a big part of family, a big part of what, you know, your, youngsters thought about, what they did, you know.	aa	That's right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	in other words like anyone can live, on a certain income no matter what it is,

b	Right.	sv	you have to, so to speak. Okay?

b	Right.	sv	it's what's important to you.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think that like girls today, have children,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and six weeks later they're back to work.

b	Right.	sv	They don't even have a bonding with that child,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's the most beautiful thing that happens between a mother and a child. The first, like say, six, years of life.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So much, happens in that period of time,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I mean once the child's in school if you had a job from say nine to three, big deal,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean they're in school,

b	Right.	ba	That's great.

o	All right.	b	Yes,

sv	when we pay so much for the debt, instead of using the money for where it ought to go, it's just, it's ridiculous.	b	Right.

qw	what is it, the act where they had to cut everything across the board	sd	the Gramm Rudman Act.

sv	That's exactly what they needed to do to get their act together.	b	Yeah,

sd	they don't try to, to conserve.	aa	No,

sd	and, I mean, when I don't have money, I don't buy something.	aa	Yeah,

aa	They sure don't seem to.	sv	The national debt is terrible.

sv	If it's a good idea it can be done again.	b	Right.

sv	At least you haven't thrown out all the work they've done for months and months and months and months.	sd	I saw one on TWENTY TWENTY about a month ago I guess, whereas one, I think that he was a Senator from Pennsylvania or something like that.

aa	that's right.	sd	and, you know, they asked him about it.

b	Yeah.	sv	And they do things that are, you know, just like the,

sv	that's just an awful lot of that kind of thing going on.	aa	Yeah

sv	You don't know enough to know what to do about some of this stuff.	b	Right.

sd	I just can't believe there aren't other people out there that could do just as well as what we've got.	aa	Absolutely,

b	Yeah.	sv	whether you're mayor, all the way up, city council, the works, I think. Certainly President, that, two terms is plenty.

aa	I think that's right.	sv	And then we get these professionals out of there,

sv	the, the idea of what you need to exist is so outrageous that it's not hardly.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it starts everywhere until we've just lost control of any kind of perspective about what is acceptable and what is not acceptable, you know.	b	Right.

sv	you can't even, can't even conceive of what they're talking about.	sv	that's why they think,

b	Yeah.	sd	Our national debt in the trillions of dollars, you know.

sv	They need to restrain about what they do.	^2	Foreign aid,

b	Yeah .	sv	they've given that away for fifty years.

sv	if we pay off the debts then we can give it to people again.	aa	I agree,

sv	but you need to get rid of this thing that's just, eating us up you know, and get things on an even,	b	Uh huh.

sv	if it were a family, we'd be up before the magistrate for doing all these wicked things, you know,	b	Right.

sv	and it's all right.	aa	Yeah,

aa	that's true.	sv	They are at least doing something now, with the military, you know,

sv	it's good to see them doing some things there anyway.	sv	But T I has gotten a lot of good contracts from the war and everything else.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, that's the only good that I've seen Congress do, you know, and everybody and all the Congressmen and the President and everybody,

sv	it just isn't fair, though, that when this happens in some places, it needs to all come off everywhere.	aa	Yeah,

sv	They need to put that into action and show they mean business. That they've got to cut costs.	aa	Yeah.

sd	Well, I don't really mind paying taxes for positive things that are helps, like roads and making sure that, that water is safe, and some of these things.	b	Yeah.

sv	You feel like they do not have control of it.	b	Yeah.

^q	I could help the poor people better by myself than they're doing.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	People need to take a stand.

sv	if they don't, if they don't pull it in and start doing something, I think they're really going to have to I think.	sv	I think the next time we have an election we need to try to get some of the ones that have been there forever out, too, what they did last election,

b	Yeah.	sv	but they don't.

b	Yeah .	sv	may, may, maybe we can change and get us rid of some of those guys that are in there, guys and gals whatever they are.

sv	But still, you don't want it to get that bad, good heavens.	aa	I know,

aa	No,	sv	you want it to stay as good as it possibly can be.

sd	But I would just like to know that they're not being foolishly spent. That they're doing something that's positive for for somebody.	b	Right.

sd	maybe I do more than I,	aa	Yeah,

sd	I use them in roads and lot of things,	sv	Well I think one of the good ones in the metroplex, in the last say twenty five years or so, maybe longer, they've built all these dams.

b	Yeah.	sv	we've had good water supply,

sv	The state actually did some good work in that a couple of years ago.	b	Yeah.

sd	Sam Johnson came out and talked to us about that about what they had done.	b	Yeah.

sv	And they really had done some good work.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	California should do more of that too.

sv	and and I think it would be easy enough to be in trouble here too, if they don't take that early stand.	b	Right.

b	Yeah	sv	The water's critical.

sv	The growth is fast enough so that they can't afford to just dawdle and wait until something til they need them.	b	Right.

fc^t	about nine.	fc	yeah,

fc^t	I just heard about it and found it fun .	fc	well, great,

fc	Guess I like to talk, that's all .	fc	Well, it's been some interesting subjects,

fc	Right.	fc	Thanks for calling.

fc	Bye now .	fc	Bye bye.

sd^t	I pushed it.	b	Okay.

qrr	or do you hire someone to do it?	nn	no

b	Uh huh.	sd	But over here we get enough water you know, naturally as well have the automatic sprinklers,

sd	We need rain badly .	aa	that's right.

sd	here in Patterson, I can water on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturday and Sunday, four days a week.	b	Uh huh.

nd	It was this last summer,	b	Uh huh.

sd	now if we don't get some rain, they might limit it to not even four times, you know	b	Yeah,

sd	and I do our planting of bulbs and things where I can have some spring flowers	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's been real enjoyable, although I didn't do any this last fall, because our past winters have been so cold, they'd freeze down,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and by the time the flowers would come back to life it was supposedly the time to pull things out for the spring and summer planting .

b	Oh.	sd	So I was getting kind of disillusioned and tired and spending too much money on something that was kind of more of a problem than it was rewarding,

sd	and I'll probably go outside today and plant that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I like to have the roses where I can have cut flowers all year long.	b	Yeah,

sd	I even had, roses on my table for Christmas dinner which was really pretty, you know .	bh	did you?

sd	I plant gladiolas	sv	those are nice.

sv	and they bend over so fast you know.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I don't have any flowers on it.

qy	well, is it one of those Amaryllis?	nn	no

b^m	No,	sd^e	I'm thinking White Narcissus or something like a white paper flower or so.

qy	Do you have a big yard?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's, you know, very small.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But most of the houses here, if you have a pool, you don't have anything else in the backyard

b^r	right.	sd	that's about the size of most of them.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	So, I guess we're kind of fortunate.

sv	Well, that makes it nice.	b	Yeah.

sd	but we don't have one you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they are a lot of people that do have pools around here you know	b	Yeah.

sd	but we just have dogs and, and grass you know, the cement work and a little play set we made for a garden.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we, had lots of tomatoes, and, zucchini	b	Oh.

sd	and it's amazing you know, how many plants you can plant in there	b	Yeah,

sd	Few cucumbers.	sd	That's one part of gardening I haven't tried yet,

qw^d	Wondering how you keep up on the news.	sd	Primarily with our local newspaper and T V.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I listen to the radio but not like I did when I was working.

sd	I get the WASHINGTON POST	bk	Okay.

sd	because I'm not going right on the hour.	bk	I see.

b	You know.	sv	Well, that is one of the handicaps with both T V and radio.

na	Right.	qy	is that correct?

sd^t	and that's what we were asked to do.	sd	Well, I can discuss a lot of the news that we have,

b	Right.	fc	So thank you for calling.

fc	Well, thanks for discussing it.	fc	All right.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Good bye.

ad^t	why don't you go ahead first.	aa	Okay.

b	Sure.	sd	long term is something we're starting to think about because our older child will be ready for college in about, gee,

b	Uh huh.	fe	Good heavens.

b	Sure.	qo	How about you?

sd	so that's kind of how we do it, from month to month depending on what insurance is due or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	long term, that's a little bit easier for us because, with our jobs we can take out extra money towards savings, Four Oh One K plans you know, retirement plans, that kind of stuff	b	Uh huh.

sd	so we can kind of put aside some money that actually is better for us not to see versus when it's on the paycheck	b	Right.

sd	so that's kind of how we do it anyway	sv	And the old, if you can't see it, then you can't spend it, idea .

sv	so you'll have that	b	Right.

qy^d^t	so. I don't know if our time is up or what .	b	Uh huh.

qy^d^t	They'll let us know .	ny	Yeah,

sd	Automatic, you know, deposit from checks to where you don't see it.	b	Right.

sd	And, you know, exactly whatever is in our checking account is basically just about what gets spent.	b	Yeah.

sv	and that's it,	b	Yeah,

sv	And you don't get a good return on it anyway,	aa	Yeah,

sv	it's a bad time, you know.	aa	Yeah,

sv	so your better bet is to, try to get in with something with your corporation if they have some kind of, savings plans or something like that to where they kind of match the percentage or whatever or some kind of profit sharing	aa	Yeah,

b	Sure.	ba	that'll be very nice.

o	Okay .	b	Yes.

sd	I find it hard to believe that a lot of the hair sprays and things that we use cause the air pollution.	b	Yeah,

sv	but I guess when you think of it everybody has some sort of aerosol in their home you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	and it's kind of dangerous.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there's mountains, you know, all around.

b	yeah.	sd	Really, it's fairly clean,

qy	But you think the mountains are kind of a barrier?	ny	Yeah

ba	That's an interesting thought.	sd	I know there's a lot of plants here,

sv	and so I would think that that would probably contribute to us not having that big of like a smog problem or something like that.	b	uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	ba	But, gee,

sd	I guess I've never really, thought about the fact, like in California they have a lot of smog problems.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it's real hilly there.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think probably just, a lot of factories, you know, they have the smoke stacks, I guess you call them and different things like that.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	just the burning of the che ,

qy	Aren't they supposed to be coming out with some sort of, special gas or something that doesn't emit certain chemicals or something?	no	I don't know.

b	okay.	sd	But, you know, that's been a new thing in the last few years,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I guess some cars are a lot worse than others.

aa	the diesel.	sd	the diesel cars.

b	yeah.	b	Yeah,

sd	truck, you know.	b	Oh.

sd^e	I don't.	bk	okay.

sd	I work in Waco at a T V station.	bk	Oh.

sd	My mother works at T I.	b	uh huh.

ny^r	yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

qy	You work at T I?	nn	No

bk	okay.	sd^e	my husband's sister lives in Dallas actually.

bk	Okay.	sd	And they kind of got us involved that way.

bk	okay.	b	Yeah

ba	That's interesting.	h	but. Well, I don't know.

sv	Noise.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Noise causes air pollution .	qy^d	speaking of noise, you can probably hear my little.

sd^e	that's why I thought of it.	b	Yeah,

^2	Landfills.	b	Yeah,

sd	And, it's really been a big fight because a lot of the people that live by the landfill don't want it expanded, because they're thinking that they're water is going to be contaminated somehow.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	sd	when we've taken things to the dump, just the dump, that is, you know, closest to us,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know that on windy days, you know they're always moving the trash over to different spots,

b	yeah.	sd	and they've got those big bulldozers,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I'm sure that their homes are really quite dusty

sd	One one of the big concerns is there's a school right across the highway from the landfill.	bh	is there.

sd^e	So the parents were really, really upset.	qy^d	Worried about their their kids getting,

qw	what kind of car are you going to buy next?	sd	Well, one of the cars I'm thinking about buying next is, a nice, safe, small car,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we use that to get back and forth and haul kids around and so forth,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we have another four door car that I drive to work,

aa^r	that's true.	qw	what are you looking at?

sv	but you know, when you're driving down the road you see all these pretty new ones that are out,	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	and you think, well, maybe I would like a new car.	b	yeah .

sd	But I think I'll be driving mine about two or three more years anyway.	b	yes,

sd	I sure do like the looks of that new Mitsubishi Diamante.	b	yes,

sv	That is a pretty car.	sd	I really like the looks also of the new Mazda that they have,

sv	that's pretty, too.	sd	but you know, the costs of a new car and those new models are extremely out of our price range right now.

sv	they get pretty expensive.	aa	Yes,

sd	but it was a demo, returned	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I got it with like, you know, I think it was like fourteen thousand miles on it and nearly ten thousand dollars less than what the list price was.	b	Right.

sd	I was looking at a Honda Accord, a brand new one	b	Yes.

sd	and I bought the, the Lincoln Town Car for just a little less money than what I was going to buy the new Honda Accord.	ba	Wow.

sd	And the thing about it is they give you that ten, that hundred thousand mile, five year warranty where it only costs you twenty five dollars to have anything repaired.	b	Yes.

sd(^q)	I said, I probably never be able, to find another one that I can afford, you know.	aa	No,

sd	and you're not even tired.	qy^g	Very comfortable, smooth ride,

sd	And it gets like twenty six miles to the gallon on the road.	bh	it does?

na	It sure does.	sv	that's unbelievable for that size of car.

sd	so well, actually before I signed the papers on it, I took it over to Boozier City	b	Yes.

sd	and it did it.	ba	Wow.

sd	and it never happens	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it does get good gas mileage.	ba	Well, that's excellent.

sd	Most of the time when I don't go anywhere I can drive it for like three weeks to and from work, you know, and then fill it up,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they have all these lights in the car	b	Yes.

sd	and it has this fancy little light that gives you a reading light for the passengers in the back seat	b	Yes.

sd	and it stayed on all night, you know just shining right down on them, you know	ba	dear.

sd	we turn the knob, you know, in the front that's supposed to turn the lights on and off	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we turned everything we could,	b	Uh huh.

^q	it's broken.	b	Yes.

sd	and they showed us where the switch was.	bf	They charged you twenty five dollars just to tell you that,

aa	they thought there was really something wrong with it when he told them he had already done the switch.	b	Uh huh,

sd	But he hadn't done the right one.	b	I see .

sd	And it's right on the arm rest in the back	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we didn't know it was there.	b	okay.

sd	And the guy hit it with his arm when he got in the car	qy^d	And found it right away.

sd	and so we thought, you know, there was, it was broken.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've had it three years now.	b	Yes.

sd	But it's just been real minor things.	sv	Well, I think that, you have an excellent deal then,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and those companies wouldn't be able to afford that for that kind of extended warranty or warranty at all,

sd	Like I say, I'll probably never be able to have another one, because I think we bought it for about sixteen thousand, you know	b	Yes .

sv	and I said, I'll never find another one for that price.	aa	No,

sd^e	I've been sitting here alternately reading and watching television .	b	Yeah.

qw^t	he was waiting for what again?	sd^t	he called in to get somebody on the line,

qy	okay?	aa^m	Okay.

sd	Well, basically I like comedy shows . MURPHY BROWN, DESIGNING WOMEN .	b	Uh huh.

qo	what do you like?	nd	Well , we don't have a T V,

bk	okay.	sd	so for the last year,

sd	and we made it almost about eighteen months without a television.	bh	Really?

sv(^q)	but then all of a sudden when you get one you realize, gee . I needed that, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	and then you get to remote control the stereo phonic, whatever all of those things,	sv	V C R, and everything else.

sd	and now it's like we're just glad we never went out and bought a compact disk player cause we wouldn't use it .	bh	Really.

sv	you're at school.	b	Yeah.

sv	basically junk that's on television .	b	Yeah.

qy	have you ever seen MURPHY BROWN, or anything like that?	ng	I don't think so .

sd	that's the one with Candice Bergen in it,	sd	Well, see another thing was I worked on second shift for like a year and a half,

sv	that would do it.	sd	and then before that I was in college for four years

aa	I know.	sd	I mean I did watch T V

sd	but I could tell you in school that, the only thing that ever saw in the dorm was, the one soap opera, ALL MY CHILDREN.	b	Yeah.

sd	And until then I never paid attention to soap operas.	sd	Me too.

sd(^q)	but I'm going, jeez, I can't believe that thing's still on television .	aa	I know,

qw	How long has it been since you've had one?	sd	Well, almost a year.

ba	my God .	b	Yeah.

sv	and then you'll get one .	sd	Well, I mean I never really watched it much growing up

sv	By then,	sd	but I thought, you know, my husband would really like miss it because he was an only child

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And I figured no

sd	that's kind of why we got back after eighteen months,	ba	That's funny.

sd	and I'm trying to think about the only other show I watch.	sd	I've seen CHEERS probably five times

sd	more then that I hate to admit	sv	It's pretty cool

sv	you know, it's a pretty funny show.	bh	you have?

ny	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

sd	It's just a, you know, over priced downtown, Boston yuppie, you know, tourist attraction.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm trying to think what else is on television,	sd	I watched a lot of T V when the war was on.

qh	Isn't that sad?	sd	And then, I like watching a lot of like college basketball and, and pro football,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean that sounds kind of stupid

sd	but I like the N B A play offs, back when like the Pistons were in them	b	Yeah.

qw	where are you calling from?	sd	Sherman, Texas.

b^m	Sherman, Texas,	qw	Where are you from?

qy^d	you don't have a T V.	qy	So, are you really from Texas though?

ny	uh huh.	sv	Well, sounds like you're from up north.

qy	My voice you mean?	ny	Yeah.

sd	and, I'm originally from Pennsylvania,	b	Oh.

nd	actually I'm a big Chicago Bears' fan.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	of course you like them too, right.	ny	Yeah.

bh	Do you?	sd	Well, I'm from Indiana.

bk	okay.	b	Yeah,

sd	but, I just like to watch, you know, two players really go at it,	b	Yeah.

ad	go ahead.	sd	I used to watch OPRAH a lot in the afternoons, before I went to work and stuff

b	OPRAH .	sd	and I see her every once in awhile like if I go workout at T I,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, they have those T V s right, in front of the treadmills,

^2	on the, on the tracks	h	I don't know

sv	Maybe cause she got chubby again or something,	sv	her disposition's gone downhill.

qy	was her show big when you where in school since you haven't been out that long?	br^m	Was what?

qy^r	Was her show big when you where in college, since you, haven't been that long?	ny	yeah.

bh	Was it?	qy	and did you see the show where she lost all of that fat?

sd^e	I saw reruns of it,	sd	she wheeled it out on a cart .

sd	I saw tapes of her ,	ba	That was so cool,

bh	isn't that terrible.	ny	Yeah.

am	I don't know.	sd	I'd eat too.

ad	if you don't have a V C R we just got one after nine years don't even spend your money on it.	bh	Really.

sd	and then it usually comes on television within two years. You know.	b	Yeah,

ad^t	in general on this project we're suppose to talk about	b	Yeah

sd	I mean, I always .	sv^t	Well, it's hard to talk about something,

b	Yeah.	sd	I feel bad cause I mean, I should know something about T V shows.

qw	what was his name Wolf Blitzer?	qw	What was that?

sd	That guy that was a reporter for C N N.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Did you see him when he was doing the coverage of the Gulf?	no	I might of.

t1	 what was his name,	bk	Oh.

sd	I can't remember his name.	b	Yeah,

sd	they made jokes about him like on the CARSON SHOW and all of that,	bk	Oh.

sd	Jay Leno.	qh	You know, what my absolutely favorite show is?

b	Uh huh.	sd	DAVID LETTERMAN.

sv	he's funny.	sd	And SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE,

sd	SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE has changed a lot if you haven't seen it in about a year.	nn	Huh uh.

sd	I mean I haven't seen it in a couple of months	qy	Has it gotten better?

sv	they really have funny characters on there.	bh	Really.

sd	And they say well, they're trying to deduce what he or she is,	b	Uh huh.

sd	So you still don't know because a fanny pack is man,	b	Yeah.

sv	it's weird .	ba	That's funny.

sv	I mean they do some crazy things.	sd	Like when WAYNE'S WORLD,

qy^d	well, you've must have seen it recently?	no	Well, I don't know,

qy^d	You probably have some friends that have television ?	br	Uh?

qy^d^r	I said you probably have some friends that have television .	ny	Yeah,

sv	You know, I mean you're not totally out of the loop.	b	Yeah.

b^m	I mean, yeah.	sd	one friend of ours got rid of his because we, you know, cause we were getting along out ours

sv	you hear about something that somebody else talked about,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but if you haven't been married that long, you know, you're doing other things .	qy	Is that on tape?

ny	yeah.	ba	That's funny.

qw	where did you go to school?	sd	Purdue.

sv	that's a good school.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	They don't have a southern accent up there though.	nn	No.

qy^d	You must be native Texan?	qw	Why

ny	yeah.	qy	Are you serious?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	I've been here three years.

sv	Deep one, you have a deep one,	ba	wow,

qw^d	I went to high school in Chicago, I'm trying to think what Purdue kids watch.	sd	We watch, M T V twenty four hours a day

bk	Okay.	sd	That's the girls I lived with

sd	Do you know that I've never, I think other then accept on a commercial or on news coverage or something, like entertainment tonight I've never seen M T V?	b	Yeah.

sd	That's kind of what I've heard .	sv	It's pretty bad.

sv	I don't think it's worth ten to thirty bucks a month to pay, somebody, to, you know, give me a hundred and fifty, , channel access to something I'm never going to,	aa	No.

sd^t	I pushed it.	b	Okay.

qo	So, how do you use your credit cards?	sd	we use them for, paying our gas and for paying, just about anything, because, we don't like to pay for our checks .

b	Uh huh.	sd	but we pay off every month, though,

sd	I won't use one that I have to pay an annual fee	b	Yeah,

sd	Why I don't just write a check, I don't know.	sd	See, well, I don't do it either .

sd	but I don't carry a lot of cash with me, because I'm always afraid that someone's going to steal my purse.	b	Yeah.

sd	and that's about all.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think that's terrible.	aa	Yeah,

sv	why, it really does help.	aa	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and so it helps us gain interest in the bank when we do it,

sv	well, I think it's better to use credit cards, too, like I say, because there's so many people around any more that's watching what you're doing	b	yeah.

sv	and if you pull a wad of money out of your pocket, they're going to hit you over the head.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I'd just soon use my credit cards and just pay them off, you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	and then you know, you can have your card back with pretty good rating, you know, because you can pay fifty dollars, but not, you know maybe five thousand or whatever.

sv	And, you know, some of those stores don't even seem to check your signature or anything you know,	aa	I know.

sd	they just slide it in there and pass it back to you you know,	aa	Yeah,

sv	I think they should check it to make sure that the signature at least matches, you know.	aa	Yeah,

aa^r	uh huh.	b	Yeah,

t1	what else can I say about credit cards.	sd	I also like to use Discover when I can, because they give you some money back every year.

qy	is that what that?	ny	Yeah,

sd	Now I don't have that one, you know.	sd	Well, we just started doing that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it comes in handy for when you're buying things like, tickets for the train or, airplanes because they'll give you some money back, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it's only a little bit,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	and so you know, it helps out here and there.

qy	you mean, for your using your credit card you get like a rebate or something?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they give you a half percent of that,

bk	I see.	sd	and I know we're going to get back more this year, because you know, we spent a little bit more probably,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they do it for how long you've been a member I think, too

bk	I see.	sd	and they increase the percentage a little bit.

sd^t	I guess our topic is about movies	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we went to the movies that past weekend.	sd	so did I .

sd	And we saw CAPE FEAR.	sd	I heard that was excellent.

aa	It is.	bh	Is it?

na	It's really good.	sd	I wanted to see that .

qw	how was that?	sd	it was excellent.

qy	Is that true? .	nd	I heard the opposite that, you should take children to see it.

bk	Oh.	sd	there were quite a few, kids in there with their parents.

bk	Oh.	b	Yeah.

sd	because, the little boy dies.	aa	Right,

b^m	Yeah.	sd	It was sad.

b	Oh.	sd	But, it kind of shows how his, best friend, this little girl, deals with his death and I think, maybe, how children should deal with death.

b	Oh.	b	Maybe.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, it was really good.

sd	Well, CAPE FEAR was more suspenseful.	b	Yeah.

sd	So that's, that's a real good movie to see.	sd	I heard it was, sort of like, not, too violent,

sv	but it's not as bad as SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.	bh	really?

sv	But, it's just as suspenseful, I think.	b	Oh.

sd	And then we saw BEAUTY AND THE BEAST . Because we have two kids. And FIEVEL GOES WEST .	b	yeah.

sd	so, And then, boy, it's been so long since we've been to the movies,	b	Yeah.

sd	but we've rented some videos.	b	yeah,

sd	And I think the last one I rented was, MORTAL THOUGHTS with Demi Moore.	b	Oh.

sd	That's pretty good.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, WHAT ABOUT BOB?	sd	I have seen that at the theatres,

sd	we rented that one.	sv	that was cute.

qy	Have you rented any movies lately?	na	the last movie I rented was THE HARD WAY with Michael J. Fox

sd	We rented that one, too.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	He's one of my favorites.

b	Yeah.	sd	I like his movies.

qy	So, do you go to the movies often,	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, there's been movies out that I've been wanting to see.

sd	and , And that's only the only time we can go out,	b	I see.

sd	so , our time is scarce.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we try and do	b	Yeah.

sd	and I don't know about the last movie I've seen on T V that was real good.	sd	I watched that movie with, Barbara,

sd	 Bertinelli, or what's her name.	sv	that was pretty good.

sd	and I heard it was a true story.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I think that was probably the last movie I've seen, too.	b	Yeah.

qy	Did you see that one?	qy^h	with, Judith Light?

sd	That was supposed to be a true story, too.	ny	Yeah,

ny	Yeah.	ny^r	Yeah,

sd	Guess a couple weeks ago or something like that.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Boy we have , we see all the same movies.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	They're more interesting.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it's hard to believe that, you know, this really happened.

aa	I know.	sv	Some of them are pretty bad.

sv	Well , We sure do have a lot in common.	b	Yeah.

ad	If you're ever in town, we'll go see a movie .	aa	Okay .

qy	do you all have, do you all still have drive ins up there	ny	Yeah,

fp	Hello.	fp	Hi.

sd^t	so I guess we're recording now.	b	Okay.

b^m	Okay,	sd^t	as far as spare time, they talked about,

sd	so I've got quite a bit of spare time right now.	b	uh huh.

sd	And I've been making dolls, cloth dolls.	bh	have you?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Oh.

sd	It's not, any porcelain at all.	qy^g	so you just sew everything up, huh?

ny	Yeah	bk	Oh.

sd	and I make the clothes for them.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	you can get the little curly hair at the craft shop.	b	uh huh.

sd	well, I made some of them with regular wigs.	bh	did you?

sd	I went to the flea markets and bought, you know, like the wigs for a dollar.	b	uh huh.

sd	Then I cut a V shape out of the back of them and then sewed them on.	ba	my goodness.

sd	They looked really cute .	qy	do you sell them?

na	I have sold five of them, so far.	bh	have you?

sd^e	I just have to get a place where, you know, I can sell them actually.	b	Yeah,

sd	if I would just work all day long, making the clothes and everything, probably about two and a half days.	bh	really?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Oh.

ny	Yes	b	Yeah.

sd^e	I really do.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, then I also crochet	sd	I, I can crochet and knit.

b	Yeah.	sd	and it's sitting in my closet half done right now,

sd	I didn't like it.	b	didn't you.

sd	but now I want to learn how to knit again.	b	Oh.

b	You know.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I do like sewing sometimes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, it's just finding the time for these things that you you enjoy.

sd	in fact, I just bought a serger in December.	sd	I would love one of these.

b	Yeah.	ba	that's neat.

sd	but just what little bit I have used it for, I really like it.	sv	those are wonderful aren't they.

sv	You know, especially making the seams and things like that you know, it's got such a professional finish on them.	aa	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	It'd be nice to have that.

sd	So I like that.	ba	that's neat.

sd	but they don't have any children.	b	uh huh.

sd	So, I just make clothes for my dolls.	b	well.

sd	you know, just like sewing and stuff and decided to buy a pattern and try to make a doll.	bf	So you did buy a pattern, and then started from there.

sv	you got to have a pattern for the body you know.	b	Uh huh.

ny^r	Yes.	b	Yeah,

qy	Aren't they cute?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I kind of made the pattern up.

sd	but when I sewed it up, the face of it looked like a mouse.	bh	it did?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Oh.

sd	See, it was too pointed.	bk	Oh.

sd	and I haven't tried another one.	qy^g	You haven't sewn it back up, huh?

sd	but I haven't made it yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I don't paint, except I stenciled my wall.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I can, I had a hard time stenciling.

bh	really?	sd	And people have told me it's very easy.

sd	and it turned out really, really good.	b	Well.

sd	mostly flowers you know.	b	uh huh.

sd	I've done it in all, all my rooms.	bh	Have you?

o	Okay.	b	All right.

sd	we have small children, two and four	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so our dining is very limited .	qy^d	I bet you're McDonald's fan.

nd	We're a little sick of that .	bh	Are you?

sd^e	like, you know, like Wyatt's Cafeteria.	bh	is that right?

sd	so you can go in and go out	b	Yeah,

sd	and any, any eating area that you just don't have to wait an extreme amount of time.	ba	I can understand that.

aa	No .	sv	They won't put up with that.

sd	and we were ready to go home.	qy	And you had. And you had the kids with you?

ny	Yeah.	qy	And they waited forty five minutes?

sd^e	We fought with them for forty five minutes.	ba	I don't doubt that one bit.

sd	and times that we do have baby sitters we try and catch, some things that we normally wouldn't do, you know.	qw	where do you like to go when you got a baby sitter?

sd	let me see, for New Year's we went to eat at Uncle Julio's.	qw	Where's that?

sd	It's, on Walnut and Greenville.	qw	What's the name of that again?

sd	It's called Uncle Julio's.	qw	what are they, what kind of?

sd	basically Mexican food.	bk	Yeah,

sd	it's a Mexican restaurant off of Central.	sv	Well, there's a zillion of them.

sd^e	but I've heard about it.	sd	That's a good place

b	Really.	sd	They've got one in Addison too, now,

b	uh huh.	sd	Good, good prices, good, good food there.

b	Yeah.	sd	If you like Mexican stuff. it's a good place.

sd	We like, seafood, also,	qy	you ever been to Vincent's?

sd^e	we haven't.	sd	That's a good seafood place.

bh	Really.	ny	Yeah.

b	Really.	qy	You ever tried a place called Louisiana Purchase?

nn	No.	sd	Well, this is in Plano.

sd	I've seen it.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	If you like it kind of hot, that that is good food,

b	Yeah.	ba	that's good stuff.

sd	It's basically the same thing, seafood Cajun style.	aa	Yes.

sd	That's in Addison, off of Belt Line.	bk	Yeah,

sd	Midway.	qw	Belt Line and what?

sd	Like I think it's a little past or it's right before Midway, or it's right at Midway.	bk	Okay.

sd	And, excellent food.	b	Uh huh.

qw	what is that?	sd	Well, you get, one free

b	really.	sd	and, We've been from barbecue to,

bk	Oh.	sd	there's a Swan Club which is out Central and Campbell.

b	Uh huh.	sd	if you like continental stuff, that is really nice.

aa	Uh huh.	sd	I mean it's not a cheap place,

qw	And where is that?	sd	It, it's north of Campbell, but, off Central,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it used to be a Northern Telecom Building in the ground floor.

b	Yeah.	sd	But it's a big, tall, it's the tallest building on the northwest side of Campbell and, just before you get to Campbell

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's in the lower floor,

b	Uh huh.	ad	And, tell him to take you there for your anniversary,

sd	well, my birthday's coming up,	ba	There you go.

sd	I need an excuse .	qy	Have you ever been to Ewaldes

b	Uh huh.	sd	My wife doesn't necessary like that stuff,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that's down in the Stoneleigh Hotel now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that is really super kind of stuff, too. if you like Continental at all that kind of stuff

b	Yeah.	sd	either one of those two, you go through a hundred bucks without half trying,

b	Yeah.	sd	you don't have to spend that much,

qo	What do you think would be required, and so forth?	^h	I'll tell you,

qy	you knew of the homes, then.	br	Pardon?

qy^r	You knew of the homes themselves?	nn	no,

b	Uh huh	sd	but, they were in the area where I live 

bk	okay.	sd	and it was really revealing to see some of you know, the things that go on, I guess, in some of these homes,

bf	I realize that you indicated you wanted to check out as much as you can about it	aa	Uh huh.

qo	but how do you think they would feel, I should say, about moving from where they have lived most of their life into a whole new home situation?	nd	Well, actually, I have that kind of situation, because my mother lives with me,

bk	okay.	sd(^q)	and, from the time that we were tiny, she said, you know, I want you to promise that you'll never put me in a rest home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I know how she feels about it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think that would be the,

qy	does that cause any problems between the two of you?	ng	I wouldn't say any more than usual.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think it's very hard for her, to be waited upon, so to speak,

^g	isn't it?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	on the other hand, it takes on almost a switch of a mother child relationship.

sd	My mother lives in an apartment with my sister	b	Oh.

sd	and, of course, since I see her only once or twice a year, I was just thrilled to have her here with me,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I spent every minute I could to be with her and, cooking foods for her, you know, just to make her life as though she were on vacation.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and my sister's uncomfortable because her mother's there	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I guess it's just because they're there all the time.	b	Yeah.

sd	and now all of a sudden she's had to move off of her farm, into another home where the environment is totally different.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And when she complains about the food then they kind of get angry with her.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, that's another one of those things you have to solve.	b	Yeah.

sd	because in those early days, the food, they had to make it from scratch, so to speak.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then they they had to store the meat in,	b	Yeah.

sd	but they had regular little places they would hang it, you know to cure it and so forth.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it tastes differently.	aa	That's right.

o	I'm ready.	b	All right.

qr	Do you exercise, during the day time or go to a gym or anything?	b	Oh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I do enjoy, going to a gym and working out,

sd	Well, I try to do it at night before I go to bed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I lay out there in the living room floor and do my exercises, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, when I went to physical therapy they gave me some exercises for my back.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I just try to keep that up, because it seems like if I don't, then my back gives me a problem again.	b	Right.

sd	So I try to do it every night,	ba	that's good.

sd	I can tell when I do it and when I don't do it you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	so you know it's got to be good for you.	b	Right .

sd	But, a long time ago I belonged to a gym	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, now I notice that in this small city that I live in, they do have a gym that just opened up here about a month ago.	b	Oh.

sd	but I haven't even gone down there and talked to them yet.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I like to bicycle, too.	b	yeah.

sv	So, that gives you, you know, lots of exercise.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we go like fifty to a hundred miles every Sunday.

ba	my goodness.	sd	So , I try to keep up in the winter with the exercise bike, so, I, you know, can be in shape .

qy^g	otherwise you wouldn't be able to go very far,	nn	No,

bh	really?	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I'm not that energetic .

b	Yeah.	sd	I get lazy sometimes.

sd	well, like I say, I just do it at night, you know,	b	Yeah.

qy	you try, try to get my stomach muscles toned up.	ny	yeah,

sv	and once you get out of shape it's hard to get back into shape you know.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	So, I try to do it every night you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	like I say, I'd rather do that than watch television anyhow you know .	b	Oh.

sd	So it's just kind of nice, and especially when I have my cat that comes down and joins me.	b	yeah,

sd	so I don't go swimming.	b	Yeah,

sd	but they do say that swimming is really, really good for you you know, for every part of your body.	b	Yeah.

fc	Okay then.	fc^m	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	bye.

qy	Do you use credit cards a good bit?	na	I do,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I just never wanted to get into the hang up of using credit cards and having all those bills hanging over my head.

b	Uh huh.	sd	In fact, I remember getting my first MasterCard,

b	Right.	sd	And so that's why I went ahead and got one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was a mistake .

sd	Well, actually, I have a whole wallet full of credit cards.	b	Yeah.

sd	I try to use at least one gasoline credit card a week, and try to use a different one, so that, you know, I keep those active.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I'll use those if I need to run in and buy a dozen pair hose right quick or something like that,	b	Yeah.

sd	My biggies are the VISA, MasterCard and Discover.	b	Yeah.

sd	And for the most part, I had used those for like, charging airline tickets, where I can pay for those, you know, you could make the transaction over the telephone,	b	Yeah.

sd	or I fly Southwest a good little bit, which means I can just run that card through the machine.	aa	That's right.

^q	and you do not have any other options	b	Uh huh.

sd	and right now I am paying and praying.	ba	I know how that goes

b	Uh huh.	sd	we had no way around it

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the only way to do it is go get, you know, an advance on a card

b	Uh huh .	sd	and so like you were paying for it,

sd	Most of my charges were, medications.	b	I see.

sd	or the doctor would accept MasterCard or VISA	b	Oh.

sv	different labs will use those charge accounts for,	qy	Do you find now, though, that even some doctors won't?

sd	like I said, that was just one period in my life where that was critical.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I kind of set that aside and just pay for it.	b	Right.

sd	and I can handle, you know, paying for it and waiting two or three weeks.	b	Right.

sv	Getting into a credit card fiasco is easy.	aa	it is .

sd	I just cringe every month when I see those interest charges.	aa	I know.

^q	I'm saving two percent.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and now they've messed that up to where it really is a financial burden to have to pay it.

b	Right.	sv	but it, but it is easy to get into a credit card problem,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they just don't understand that you still have to be able to make the payments.

sv	and it's not just paying back what you've charged,	qh	You know.

sv	it's paying that and half again.	aa	That's right.

sv	you're going to pay twenty, twenty five in interest charges.	aa	That's right.

sd	so I'm looking at three or four years before my balances are cleared on those charge accounts.	b	Right.

sd	Now, I mean as the monthly payment amount goes down, that will free up more cash where I can continue to make the larger payments.	b	Right.

sd	as long as I don't have a major disaster where I have to use it again, I can do that.	b	Right.

sd	Meantime, though, I'm not building any reserves.	aa	No,

sd	Anything that I could be put aside into savings is going for interest on those cards.	aa	That's right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I just, I, my husband is in business for himself

b	Uh huh.	sd	I work for T I

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I, I've kind of got my fingers crossed.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but you know, it's those once in a lifetime cases,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they should pay through next month,

b^r	right.	sd	And, you know, just in one lump,

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	or it's like you say,

aa^r	uh huh.	sd	And so I'm really looking forward to that.

sv	or you need a large reserve so that if you do charge on that account, you can make a single lump sum payment.	aa	That's right.

sv	Now, those are very handy	b	Right.

sv	if you have the reserves and you can make lump sum payments, sharp, good no problem	aa	Sure,

sd	because you're living on the other guy's money for a while.	aa	That's right .

sd	But I can promise you that those credit card companies are going to ride high on my money .	aa	I know

sd	I've lost a whole day of my life to interest.	aa	I know.

sd	but even the payment on that doesn't equal the payment on one of those credit cards.	ba	It's incredible.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Boy, I wish I could say that my house and,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I had to have the money to pay rental car, pay this, pay that till the insurance company pays back.

sv	I think that is a good, healthy, safe use of credit cards.	b	Yeah.

^q	You only use credit cards for investments.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	I said for crying out loud, if I had the money to in , you know, if I could do some investing, you'd have to invest at better than twenty percent earnings in order to pay for the payments on the credit card.	b	Sure.

sd(^q)	I thought God dang, where is his pencil?	aa	That's right.

aa	That's right.	sv	and so that is the smart half.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I can remember before we had kids, we did that a lot,

b	Uh huh.	sv	while after kids, and you're paying child care and other things, all of a sudden it's not so easy to pay off,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	but I do like having them there.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but you have to have a very good sense of saving, or common sense not to get yourself in trouble.

sv	You also have to have that willingness to commit to that because you're committing a good portion of your life and income when you do it.	b	Uh huh.

o	There you go.	qo	What do you think invades your privacy?

sd	Even when you tell them no, they keep calling back.	b	M C I

sd	it's the long distance telephone company.	sd	now see I really don't have much trouble with, I just say no thank you and hang up.

sd	They just keep calling back.	sd	I had a carpet service call up three times, all within in an hour,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I do telemarketing,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, I'm very polite

b	Yeah.	sd	So I think the only thing that really bothers me is when somebody contacts me

b	Uh huh.	sd	Like the United States Census Bureau.

b	yeah.	sd	That bothered me.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I didn't feel they had a right to know how many bedrooms were in my house even.

b	Right.	sv	That I think is my invasion privacy because it's the government

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I think that is my biggest objection to anything as far as invading my privacy. If somebody wants personal information out of me,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know when I do telemarketing, I'm a soft person,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I make very good sales,

sv	You can't force them to be.	b	Right.

sv	No.	sd	And I'm not pushing something down their throat that, I don't think is a good item anyway.

b	Uh huh.	sd	That I don't think I could do anyway.

b	yeah	sv	I think that's invasion of privacy.

sd	because they follow them around twenty four hours a day.	b	Yeah .

sd	And you know they do Ted Kennedy.	b	yeah.

sv	it's not the same with Johnny Carson.	aa	No,

qy^d	and without your permission.	na	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	This to me is my invasion of privacy.

b	Right.	sd	Anytime I can honestly say no, or, throw the paper away, or,

ba	good.	sd	But, the telephone doesn't bother me because I leave it half the time, on, you know, answering service anyway, unless I'm home,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I figure I can turn it off one way or the other,

b	Uh huh.	sd	that I felt was invasion because it was the same carpet place, and called me three times.

aa	That's right.	sd	like I don't know when the police has their project going

sv	and sometimes it's hard to screen out all the calls that you don't want.	sv	Well see there's no way of knowing,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, that's the problem.

b	uh huh.	sd	But, if we were denied the right to call people up, these people would never be able to get it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because we offer it in a very low, you know, quantity.

aa	uh huh.	bf	I gather you get a lot of telephone calls.

sd	some days it just rings off the wall.	b	Yes,

nn^r	no.	sv	I think that's where they hit most of us.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And you just know about what time,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And they say, well don't you want to know what's free,

sd	but the questions go a lot farther than having to do anything with smoking.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	we're on, recycling	aa	Yes.

sd	and, I am not real well informed on exactly what Richardson does.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we recycle our aluminum pop cans and stuff.	b	I see.

qy^g	But now Plano has quite an elaborate system, don't they?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they just couldn't believe how many people were going out of their way to fill these things up.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Instead of collecting plastic bags of garbage two days a week, they make a collection on Monday for yard waste,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's a pretty good size.

b	Oh.	sd	And we put that out by the street,

b	Okay.	sd	And then also, that same day, you put out a small tub,

qy^d	and then they separate it.	na	Exactly,

ba	that's a neat system.	aa	Yeah

b	uh huh.	sd	the trucks were being, the engines or something were being shipped over there for something or other.

sd	but they have the two separate containers and stuff.	b	yes,

ba	that is interesting.	b	Yeah.

qh	Because I wonder if that means that if you don't do it	b	Uh huh.

qy	do you suppose they will come and knock on your door and,	no	I don't know,

qh	Will you,	b	Yeah,

aa^r	right.	sv	So there's, it's possible that there is a person in Plano that doesn't buy any of those three things, and therefore wouldn't have.

sv	That's true, except that it's hard to imagine, you know, when you have, cans, you know, from the market and, you know, vegetable cans, and et cetera.	b	Right.

b^m	they don't take vegetable cans.	sd	just the aluminum pop cans.

b	This is just their aluminum cans.	b	Yeah.

ba	that's interesting.	b	Yeah,

qy	Wouldn't you really like to know?	na	I would.

^q	what are you doing reading , you know.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	I think it helps if the city is giving you a nudge to do it because I think there are a lot of people that don't do it,	b	Yes.

sd	We got started on the aluminum cans because our, grandson was collecting them, to raise money and stuff for an organization he was in.	b	Yes.

sd	so we've kept on	b	Yeah.

sv	and it's interesting, too, that we drive to Plano at Plano Road to, just inside your city limits, to, you know turn them in to dump them in.	^2	Dump them off.

sv	I'm sure there's bound to be some here in Richardson	b	Right.

sd	but we just haven't really seen them advertised or you know, something.	b	Yeah.

ba	Well, that's interesting.	aa	Yeah,

sd^t	I, I guess I've had to discuss a number of what might be considered controversial issues,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and there are some very different views, of the people connected with the program which I thought was really interesting, you know.	sd	Well, now you say two different parts of the country

sd	and most people in Maryland vote for that, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, it really is a different,	sd	well, of course, you talk gun controls down here in Texas

sd	and I talked with a woman who actually, you know, had just purchased a gun that day, and was going target shooting, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	So it's really interesting.	aa	Well, it's very true,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Although I claim Florida as my home now,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I lived in Florida for ten years

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	well in your words, they were a little bit too liberal.

qh	isn't it funny.	sd	I mean they if I'm correct I believe they permitted their carrying concealed weapons.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But they quickly did away with it.

b	Yeah.	sd	I think in the next session they modified it

sd	and like the Brady Bill that's currently being discussed nationally and whatever is very well supported here, in gun control avenues,	sd	The the seven day the delay

qy^d	You have the seven day waiting period.	ny	Uh huh.

b	Yeah	sd	Well I don't mind that too much

b	Yeah.	sv	And Really the only objection we have Is you give a little

sv	the same I know the abortion issue with right to life and right to choose	b	Yeah.

sv	there's there's always that difficulty	ad	Well then tell me

ny	yeah	ad	Well let me ask you this then.

aa	Sure	qo	what is your feeling about expressing yourself by burning the American flag?

sd	But I would never	ad	Well now wait a minute there

aa	Yeah.	sd	you just said it.

qy^d	I guess you feel differently.	qy	Then would you condone the burning of the capitol building?

sv	If somebody buys their own flag and burns it that's fine	x	 

sv	but that's you know that's destruction of public property and whatever.	bf	then you don't draw a line between public property and a public symbol.

sv	I think what America stands for is the right to be able to disagree with the government.	b	yeah

sv	I think that's what's made democracy	sd	but here again I go back to the second amendment

aa	Well that's true	sd	Now I am I am adamantly against that.

sd	and they always talk about they feel that this person believes in the framing of the constitution what the original framers the ideals the original framers set down.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you can display that.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	Because, realistically, like for you you don't think it's right	nn	No.

sd	and that symbol means a lot to me.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I guess it's just one of those things where if that's what's something it's a need for them you know.	bf	even though you agree with me you you wouldn't do it yourself.

aa	No.	bf	Nevertheless you maintain that it is the right of any citizen to burn the symbol of their country.

aa	Uh huh.	bf	so long as it's their possession.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I used to know as a Boy Scout

b	Yeah.	sv	And, to me that's black eye to every man that ever carried a weapon or killed for his country.

sv	But I don't think that we have a right to stop somebody from that you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess I get all mixed up inside. when, Yeah	sv	It's It's very easy to do.

sd	but they would vote pro choice.	b	Uh huh.

sv	an abortion means it's somebody's in trouble and that it's an awful thing, you know	sv	Well I think it should be permitted under certain circus circumstances. 

sd	I don't know if I could ever be a judge, because some things emotionally just aren't you know	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's really something how political ideas and viewpoints within one country can vary so much and also within within a,	^2	within the own society, it can vary.

sv	how it'll sway from one extreme to another.	b	Uh huh.

ad	let's talk about schooling.	aa	Yeah.

sd	and I have a young a young boy in that.	bk	okay.

sd	So I have a lot of children in the school system down here.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Like, last year, my son and daughter were in the same grade school before he moved up to middle school,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, it was a fire hazard if we had any kind of assembly there with parents.	b	Yeah.

sd	but in the meantime, the school still has lots and lots of kids in it.	b	Yeah,

sv	and secondly, when we have enough schools, sometimes we can't get the support for the teachers that we need to pay them to keep good teachers.	aa	Well, I think that's, true.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, my wife teaches kindergarten here in Richardson.

ba	great.	sd	but, in general, I think the, you know, one of the reasons that we, chose to live in Richardson when we came here was the schools,

^2	We see through out the country.	aa	right,

aa	I think that's right.	sv	and, although there's still some problems,

b	Yeah .	sv	and I think that part of it is not exactly with the schools, but with the, with the, the culture that doesn't value the education and doesn't value the schools and doesn't support, what the schools are trying to do.

sv	It is so hard with a family system, either divorced or just one parent or just li ,	aa	Yeah,

sv	and then, if both of them have to work, even that is a hard situation for the children, to have a supportive system around them to make school work for them	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think it's real important that the parents work with the school,	b	Yeah.

aa	I think what you said is really a pinpoint, though, that the student and the family life really adds or detracts what's happening in the school	b	Yeah.

qy	is she happy at school	sd	Well, she works very hard as a kindergarten teacher.

ba	I bet she does.	sd	she has two half day classes.

b^r	right.	sd	but her background is in, child development, and and, so forth,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so kindergarten is as high as she wants to teach,

b	Right.	b	So, yeah,

qy	Do you want to go ahead?	na	Sure.

sv	Well I think, you know, when I look at, all the things that are coming out now about over spending and spending money that's not there and buying things that are extremely expensive where they could buy it at a better discount,	qy	You mean like those, you know, twenty thousand dollar toilets ?

^q	it's just unlimited,	aa	Sure,

sv	I mean, that kind of thing	aa	Right.

aa	Exactly.	sv	It takes you know, very little to just shop around and,

sv	and they're looking at what's the best buy.	aa	That's true .

sv	and you didn't care what you paid.	b	Yep.

sv	Going to actually shop at Best Buy for, Best Buy is one of our electronic stores for fax machines, things like that, instead of going through these office supply companies that mark up their amounts and say, you know, I'll give you a legal pad for five bucks,	b	Right.

sv	and you can go to another shop and get it for maybe sixty cents or ninety cents	b	Yeah.

sv	that kind of thing	qh	I'm also wondering why our taxes are still so high considering like the world's probably in better shape now than it has been in the last fifty years .

sd	and also I have one dependent has my daughter	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I keep looking at well where's the so called tax, relief for having children.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I mean, I think I paid just as much as when I didn't have her,	aa	I know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Between Four Oh One K and the thirty four percent they're taking out for taxes.

aa	Exactly.	sd	Let alone what I end up having to pay .

sv	but you're still going to owe the government as much money	b	Sure.

sv	and it certainly isn't going to be in their savings, account.	aa	Nope,

sv	Nobody's going to have the money to spend.	aa	Sure

sd	so, I don't know where the answer is	sv	in the first place, you know, there's also like taxation without representation.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	It doesn't take care of my needs .

sv	Now, we go through another election and listen to all these lies about the,	sv	and people don't care anymore either.

aa^r	No.	sv	People don't want to go out to vote.

sv	It's candidates that have money	aa	Yep.

sv	and, you know, you're not going to get anymore Abe Lincolns around.	aa	No,

sv	Just like the communist government of, the old U S S R.	b	Yeah .

^q	we're fed up.	b	Yeah,

qh	Who knows	b	Yeah,

qy^d	Well, I was just wondering if you had had any experience with, the care of the elderly.	ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, those times, well, she was there in the regular hospital.

b	Right.	sd	And then she was diagnosed having inoperable type of cancer,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, as far as I'm concerned, that is far and above any nursing home, because, you know, the, the elderly parent in question is around their own family.

ba	Well, that's nice.	sd	And it's all taken care of by, Medicare,

aa	No.	sv	And that's what I basically, view a nursing home as, a warehouse,

sv	It's really sad .	br	Pardon me?

sv	It's really a sad situation.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	I, I guess the problem is that the spouse of whoever, you know, the parent is, doesn't always want the in law living in the house.	b	Oh .

qy	Is that right?	na	Right.

ba	Well, that's really sad.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so this isn't like, just one, instance.

b	Uh huh.	sd	In fact, her, experiences were invaluable to me.

b	Uh huh.	sd	in fact, I don't know if I could have, held up, you know, without my wife, helping in this, this, in this case.

sd	and they did for a long time. I couldn't, tell you how long, } until she got, where she had to have complete care,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so , they couldn't, you know, keep her in the house anymore,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I don't remember much about it except that there was a nursing home at that time just a block or two from our house.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we all went just constantly until she died.	b	okay.

sd	and you know, I don't, being so young, I don't remember why. You know, what was, why she had to go there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I do remember that she was, you know, totally incapable of taking care of herself in any way.	ba	boy,

sd	And that, they couldn't, they found that they could not you know, give her the hygienic care and everything that she needed.	b	Uh huh.

aa	but like you say, there is a tendency for people to be abandoned, though, you know, in the nursing home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I do remember the other patients there, being real excited when we came to see our own grandmother, because they got some interaction with someone.	aa	Right.

sv	If they're busy they don't you know.	b	Uh huh .

sv	It's easy to abandon people, because we do have the nursing homes, I guess.	b	Right.

sd	But, anyway. Well, I'm, glad it worked out good for your family.	b	yeah,

fp	Hi	fp^m	Hi,

fp	My name's Ken,	fp	Hi Ken,

^g	right?	ny	Yes,

sd	Everybody else but one has been in Texas.	b	Oh.

ad^t	well I guess we should get on with this.	aa	Okay.

^g	right.	ny	Yes.

qy	do you think that the Soviet Union represents a threat to us?	sv	I think they'll always represent a threat whether or not there's an active cold war or not.

sv	I suspect they're not our biggest threat anymore.	aa	Probably not,

sv	I suspect it's probably some crazy man like Saddam Hussein who's our biggest threat,	b	Right.

sv	and there's just so much military machine there.	aa	Uh huh,

b	Right.	sv	and the great powers are always pitted against each other.

qw^d	But I wonder how much longer they're going to be them.	no	I don't know .

b	Yeah.	aa	But I agree right now they're not,

sv	I mean, if, if something were to happen, I'm sure they would all of a sudden band together just for the sake of, of, of unity against us or something if, if need be.	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)	actually I noticed I mean, this, this, this most recent scare of his, where or he just decided that instead of having, I can't think of the word now, if there are any demonstrations in favor of Boris Yeltsin, he decided, well, I'll just cancel all demonstrations altogether.	b	Uh huh.

sv	he, I think, is becoming very dangerous because he's making those people angry at him,	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think he's also making, the military angry at him.	b	Yeah.

sd	like with the Baltic states when they just go in there	b	Yeah.

sd	divvy the people up.	sv	See, I'm concerned that since he's banned demonstrations altogether, that he's going to do the type of thing that happened in Tiananmen Square,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, it's going to cause more civil war than is already occurring.

h	I don't know though.	h^m	I don't know.

sd	sort of a military thing I was speaking of before.	b	Uh huh.

^q	and we're to not let you do it, you know.	b	Yeah.

ba	that's real scary, actually.	b	Yeah.

sv	but it could be real dangerous.	aa	Yeah,

sv	we don't need to worry about them.	sv	I guess as long as, they're fighting each other, we don't have to worry about them wasting their time with us.

qy	but wouldn't it be nice if no one had to fight anybody else.	na	Well, sure,

b	Yeah.	sv	and people are just too different.

sv	I think that underlying we're all probably not as different as everybody thinks.	sv	But unfortunately, people aren't that insightful.

aa	Well, that's certainly true of it.	sv	They just see that this guy prays differently and to someone else than I do.

sd^t	this, someone before, actually one of these calls	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	one of these calls	b	Uh huh.

sd	this, this poem, Everything I Wanted to Know I Learned in Kindergarten, or something.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	You've read that one before.	nn	No,

^q	and whenever we'd start a fight we'd all apologize and hug each other you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	If we could just do the same thing sort of, with, with everybody else, I suspect we'd be fine.	aa	Yes,

qw^d	Because I often sort of wonder how, having never been to the Soviet Union, how different the people there really are, you know.	sd	That's one of the places I would most like to go.

b	Yeah.	sd	but at some point I would like to go to Moscow and, to, just to see all these things that you can see on television now and can read about

b	Right.	sd	and we didn't know what things were like.

sv	so it would be interesting to watch.	aa	Yeah,

sd	the ones in like the Baltic states where they don't have a strong leader, then, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean they have Yeltsin who may yet sort of help Russia.	b	Yeah.

sv(^q)	I mean, they were taken over you know, not too long ago and then just sort of told, well, you're here now,	b	Yeah.

sv	I think it's a sad state of affairs,	sv	it's probably not dissimilar from what are they, the, the, the, I'm trying to think of the name of the, the , something like that in Northern Iraq who are actually countrymen of,

aa^r	yeah.	sd	I mean, some of them were split off into Israel, I believe,

b	Right.	sd	And they were split up into three different countries.

aa^r	well, yeah,	sv	and they're very dissatisfied,

^q	we want our piece.	b	Yeah.

sv	they have Muslims to deal with as well as Saddam Hussein.	b	Uh huh.

^q	We just want this little tiny piece of land.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and within five or six countries there are probably ten cultures of people,

aa^r	yes.	sd	And they don't all have their own country,

sd	so I, also I know some of the history .	b	Oh.

sd	We're sort of like the Middle East peace talks ourselves.	b	uh huh.

sd	and I know that it really is lots of different cultures in one place, I mean	b	Uh huh.

sv	you can't take a whole bunch of people who just aren't the same people and don't want to be together and put them together forcibly.	b	Yeah.

sv	but they wanted to do it.	aa	Yeah,

aa	that's certainly true.	sv	I mean, they had the same ideals and the same basic beliefs.

qy^d	I wonder if now the people in the Soviet Union don't have ideas very different from that.	am	the , they might.

sd	but, I went two or three weeks ago for the first time in a long time and saw DANCES WITH WOLVES, which turned out to be an extremely good movie.	sd	I haven't seen that yet.

^q	this is not one that you want to do that with.	sd	That's what I heard,

sd	it's just amazing, amazing picture.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, this is the one for me this time.	bh	Really.

qw	What have you been to lately?	^h	let's see.

b	yeah.	sd	So we wanted to see what this is like.

bh	Is that right?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm convinced now he can act.

qw	How's his karate?	sd	his, his karate is pretty good.

sv	they get	^2	Fighting.

sd	We wanted to jump in the cars and race.	b	Right.

sv	And I suspect today what they see is bound to be what they want to do when they get out of it.	aa	Yeah,

bh	Is that right?	qy^d	I don't know if you saw GHOSTS or not.

na	I did see GHOSTS.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think that GHOSTS was one of those that a lot of people didn't think was going to be any good.	b	Yeah.

sv	And it turned out to be an excellent movie.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I've forgotten the guy's name who was in it, who had the lead role.	qy	Patrick Swayze?

sd^e	and I especially like him.	b	Yeah,

sd	Other than that, DANCES WITH WOLVES seems like to be the only thing I've seen in the past several months to have any,	b	Really,

bh	Is that right.	qy	Have you heard of it?

sd	but I'm not real sure what it's about.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	And I thought, what a strange combination,

aa	That is a strange combination.	sd	Well, actually, that, that it's actually Albert Brooks,

ny	Yeah.	bk	I know,

b	yeah.	sd	and they have to,

qy^d	Both of them.	na	Right.

b	Oh.	qy^d	I don't know if you've ever read Jonathan Livingston Seagull,

sd^e	years ago.	sd	They sort of move up to levels,

b	Oh.	ad	So you can guess the rest of the plot.

qy^d	And then defend it.	sd	And that's pretty good actually.

qy^d	Well, I guess that's where the title comes from then.	ny	Yeah.

aa	it is.	sd(^q)	I was, I went thinking it'll be okay, not great,

sd	we've got a couple of movies out recently, GHOSTS and DEFENDING YOUR LIFE, that have to do with, after life, I guess.	b	Yeah.

qh	Is it supposed to be better?	b	The other world,

sv	We like those things that way.	sv	it certainly would explain the preoccupation with ,

sv	and there's no real way of finding out.	aa	Right,

sv	There's only one way of finding it.	qy	Well did you ever see, FLATLINERS.

sd	and she really liked it.	sd	it's on video now, I think.

aa	it is.	sv	probably worth seeing on video.

sv	and you never know.	aa	Almost,

b	Yeah.	sd	and they didn't just sort of make it silly.

sd	and it doesn't end like the story has been going.	aa	The story sort of keeps going and going.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd^t	I guess tonight's topic is about recycling.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I'd like to tell you first of all what's happening in our community here in Plano.	b	All right.

sd	because I hate to see our landfills being filled up and, growing bigger and bigger and bigger where they are becoming a big problem for not only the people that are living today, but for the future also.	b	Yeah,

qo	How about your community?	b	My community,

br	Dye Mound?	sd	Or Dye Community.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it's not a city, not incorporated,

sd	Sounds like a place where I grew up .	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, I like it.	sd	And, well, give you an idea,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I do some interesting recycling things.

ba	Well, good.	sd	I'm building our house right now

b	okay.	sd	So when I drive the car in the driveway in the afternoon, it will just drive it up on a ramp that actually puts me on top of the, pressure side of a, hydraulic cylinder.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the weight of the car will crush, what's ever in the disposer.

b	Oh.	sd	hopefully, it's not my wife.

sv	You can get in trouble for that.	sd	Well, I thought you know, I'd use it as an escapement type thing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then you go over and release it

qy^g	Well, it's quite similar to a hydraulic jack, isn't it?	na	Very similar,

bk^r	okay.	sd	Well, what it will be, you drive up on the jack,

qy^d	until you release it.	nd	Until you pull the pin,

b	All right.	sd	Anyway I have another, recycling method I use.

b	Yes.	qy	You know all that junk mail you get?

sd^e	I sure do.	sd(^q)	The glossy paper that says, buy this, and send off for that and you have won and all that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well, anytime they send me a return envelope I put all that stuff back in the envelope plus the other stuff that I, you know, happen to gather up.

b	Oh.	sd	Because, well, like I say, we live a way

b	Yes.	sd	And I don't like that

b	No.	sd	so I don't do that.

ba	That's excellent.	sd	I've had four companies actually stop mailing me stuff.

sv	and we might be able to incorporate some of that.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sd	For instance, I saw a thing on, NOVA, I think it was the other day.

b	Uh huh.	sd	This guy has designed I mean recyclable items.

b	Right.	sd	Whatever he makes, it's all out of the same thing.

b	Oh.	sd	See, so, plastic, it's all out of plastic.

b	Yes.	sd	If it's metal, it's all out of metal.

ba^r	that's a great idea.	sv	and, incorporating, you know, reusable materials you know, your assembly line into your actual scheme of product operations is is the only way to really do it on a broad scale.

aa	Yes.	sv	Make it financially, attractive to recycle

b	Uh huh.	sv	and somebody will find a way to make money at it.

aa	Exactly.	sd	Well, there is a guy in Dallas,

sv	Well, that's a full time job.	aa	Yeah,

qy^t	do you want to start?	aa	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I can't think of many alternatives that could be more fair than having twelve people decide, although it's difficult because they all have to be unanimous.

qrr	Or even in, like they said, you know, lesser, you know, trials, you know, lesser convictions, do you think that they should be all unanimous still?	no	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I guess, if you request one you can.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And we have so many people already, you know,

sv	So I don't know if it would leave anyone getting off more unless someone just gets tired of fighting, you know, just gives in.	b	Yeah.

sd	And they have to stay in until they all agree	b^m	Agree .

sd	but I do know for sure that all twelve have to agree before he can either, you know, either he or she can either go free or to jail, either one.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Especially because there's twelve.

qh	but I don't understand with racialism and the way religion is and everything else how you can get people that are totally impartial to it.	aa	I know.

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	but then, again, you know, the, one of the questions they asked is, should it just be decided by a judge

b	Uh huh.	sv	and sometimes they're pretty partial in their judgements, too .

qh	how many times have you heard of judges being bought over.	aa	I know.

sd	and he completely, you know, goes the other way.	b	Yeah.

sd	Now, I'm not sure if the judge is allowed to do that in everyday life or what.	sd	I think in some cases they are.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But they know they get to decide how severe the sentence is if it's, you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	so that's another thing where they have the power,

sv	If there were more than twelve, can you imagine how long they'd be sitting .	aa	I know.

sd	I mean, some cases go on for years, you know.	aa	That's true,

sv	Maybe maybe they should be asking someone that's been on trial before.	sv	It could be,

b	Uh huh.	sv	The unanimous vote is questionable, though.

b	Yeah.	sv	Because, I don't know if you should really have a jury for a small infraction.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know anything .

sv	so that is fair.	b	Right.

sv	I, I don't think anyone's going to come up with a better way.	aa	No,

sd^t	I think we can hang up anytime .	bk	Okay.

fc	I don't	fc	Okay,

fc	Bye.	fc	Thanks.

qy	well, Pat, did you vote in the last election?	na	Most assuredly.

bh	you did?	ny	Yes ma'am.

qo	Well, why do you think, people don't.	sd	Don't always vote for somebody.

ba	That makes sense too.	sd	I know that my late husband was simply indifferent.

sd	I know that I've moved around a lot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	In the past, three years I've had three different addresses.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Each time I change jurisdictions or whatever.	b	Sure.

sd	when I lived steadily in one community, I always, I voted.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but then I didn't vote I guess, in the two year for, some legislators and things	b	Uh huh.

aa	uh huh.	sd	If I do not feel very strongly about an issue, then I see no reason to go vote.

sd	and that's probably one reason why I voted in the the last election, but not really this one	b	Uh huh.

sv	because this one really didn't matter that much.	b	Uh huh.

aa	it's probably true.	sv	Well, of course listening to the instructors, you'll find out that everything matters,

sd	Well, you know, they also say that most people vote their local politics, that local is much more important than, national issues.	sv	Well that's the way you get to national

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that's the way you make changes about your neighborhood,

aa	I definitely think so.	sd	I know that I have been involved in preparing and in, carrying out a lot of the local petitions that take place.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Even something so simple as getting a street light in between lights on the end of the block.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But it makes a big difference when it's the difference in having a child run over in the dark.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, it took a close call to wake us up and cause us to take that kind of action,

b	Uh huh.	ba	and that's completely unnecessary.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but if you just cross that major street, the character of the neighborhood changes,

b	Uh huh.	b	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it was for elderly people who lived alone,

aa	that's true,	sd	And all it did was to, in my judgment, make them, easier targets

^2	Prepare them to be, victims,	aa	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it was on the, right side of the street.

^2	Right side, of the tracks,	sd	And, it, I think that they're much more comfortable there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I haven't seen too much crime in my neighborhood,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's very serious just across the street.

sv	because that got national attention, I guess, having a woman governor running against a man and whatever.	ar	No,

b	Yeah.	sv	it was a dirty election.

sd	Well, you know, what's funny, up here, I see a lot of Virginia news	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I guess, Senator Robb and Governor Wilder are active right here,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they have some type of wire tapping problem going on,	b	Uh huh.

sd	see Robb is married to Lynda Bird Johnson	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the people in Virginia are complaining that he's using Texas politics in Virginia	b	Uh huh.

sd	because they said that We don't have that type of trashy politics up here like they do in Texas all the time.	sv	Well, of course, now, that's not all the time.

sd	So you guys were getting yeah,	sv	We've had some pretty We were having some pretty healthy campaigns that were based on issues there for two or three of the gubernatorial races

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, historically, Texas has had mud and muddier campaigns

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, I think that eventually, you know, the better people have sensibilities

b	Uh huh.	sv	You don't want to vote for the person who is least likely to do damage.

sd	I know that, I'm previously from Pennsylvania	b	Uh huh.

sd	and Dick Thornburg who's now the attorney general is going to run for senator because, John Heinz, a senator from Pennsylvania, died in an airplane crash	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I know that they're expecting a gigantic turn out to landslide Dick Thornburg as, into the senate because they don't like the governor's political appointee, or whatever	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're almost expecting landslide turn out, right now for that election.	b	Uh huh.

ny	Yeah.	qy^d	isn't that too bad.

b	Uh huh.	^q	hey, we think this guy can really make some changes

b	Yeah.	sd	That was true in a lot of cases in a couple of the older sixties campaigns.

qy	was that when, you,	nn	No,

aa	that's true.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sd	Now, that's not to say what has transpired or what really was,

sd	Because those were big political, that was a big, turn out election.	b	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it was people going to vote for, I think, more than those who voted against.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know that in my own, area of people, whom I knew and how they were going to vote, they didn't go to vote against, a politician as they did a little bit later when Nixon was running.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They went to vote against the lesser of the two evils in certain cases.

b	Yeah.	sv	But I think that one was one that you had some very strong feelings among people,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they voted their convictions.

sv	Well, I think that also happened with Ronald Reagan.	aa	Absolutely.

sv	He was he was landslided in	aa	You're right.

sd	and one is, four.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so I decided to hold off on my job for a while and stay home with them and spend some more time with them which I hadn't been doing.	sv	Well, I think that's wonderful.

b	Oh.	sd	But I teach school

b	Oh.	sd	And so I see a lot of, variation in what happens when kids are at home.

b	Yeah.	sd	I have taught school ever since my children were little.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But the advantage of teaching school is your hours are closer to your children's

b	Yeah.	sv	So teaching, I think is a good career to have and still be able to spend a lot of quality time with kids.

sd	I was teaching for Richardson School District.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it just seemed like it took a lot of my time with them being so little.	b	Right.

sv	And it's really hard.	sv	Well, with them being as young.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I really didn't have that much of a choice because my husband was trying to finish his, college work and his Master's degree and so forth,

b	Yeah.	sd	and so it was a matter of somebody had to have a job.

sd	but I felt like I really wanted to work.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and , you know, it's like, do I really need to work, you know?	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's different staying home too, you know.	aa	Yes,

sv	It's an adjustment to make, also.	sv	Well, I think that, we need to spend more family time together with children today.

b	Yeah.	sd	we participated.

ba	Wow, that's great.	sd	when, the kids were in high school, it was harder to always have supper together,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, we had supper together as much as possible,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but we've always tried to spend time to talk and, have some together time

b	Yeah.	sd	and we sat around the table,

ba	Wow, that's great.	sd	So I think that's been important, because we do have a close family

b	Uh huh.	sd	and even though the kids are basically, grown, they still like to sit down at the table and us all eat together when they're here and have spoken before of, they want that kind of, you know, situation for them you know, and their children when they marry and have children.

sv	kind of goes on.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They do what they see, you know.	aa	That's right.

b	yeah.	qy^d	and then you see them magnified in the children.

sd	Plus, you teach middle school,	ba	boy,

sd	I taught early childhood	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I had the little ones.	b	Yes.

sv	and you know, you just it's, it's, kind of an eye opener.	aa	It is.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think we make a point to do that.

aa	I think you're right.	sv	Because , we see all the time, the outcome of not doing that

b	Yeah.	sv	and I think if we weren't so interested in children, in child care, then we wouldn't be teaching anyway.

b	Right.	sd	I wish we could reach more of the rest of the world .

aa^r	yeah.	sv	I think, the major problems in education are not what's happening in the schools,

aa	yeah.	sv	And, they expect us to, you know, create miracles at school and fix all the problems and take over the roles of the parents as well as that of the teachers

b	Yeah.	sv	and you get to a point where it's completely impossible.

ba	I know exactly what you're saying .	sv	And you just get more and more frustrated

sd	I was watching the soap opera awards.	b	Oh .

sd	because every single woman in the audience is, about ten pounds.	b	Oh .

sd	So. I started anchoring, exercising about last Spring, when I, joined the President's Health Club.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it is hard to go regularly for a long time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I am not exercising at the moment.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just cannot do that.	ba	Well, I understand that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so, we walked pretty steadily for about three weeks

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't seem to find time in the day time.

b	Yeah.	sd	And of course, it is motivation that is keeping me from really looking for that opportunity.

sv	I think a lot of the times, if you have someone to, work out with, or walk with, or something, it does give you that motivation.	b	yeah.

sv	And I mean you can, you know, pretty much do it privately if you had your own private, sort of contest. You know where you would try and see if you could lose more weight than your friend or something like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	And that would keep you going.	sd	of course, I could lose certainly from ten to twenty pounds

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I think more than that,

b	yeah.	sd	And that is something that I am motivated about now because I do need to get myself feeling better just in better shape.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, all the same it is connected to my attitude,

sv	perky is a good word for it when you exercise.	b	Yeah.

sv	Better than running.	aa	Yeah.

sv	cause it works everything	sv	And you have less chance of hurting yourself.

sv	Like, I understand running hurt your shins or knees or something like that.	b	Yeah.

ba	Wow.	sd	I was suffering for about three weeks later.

ba	Wow.	sd	and I have never had that problem before

b	Yeah.	sv	but I guess that age just starts to catch up to me .

b	oh .	sv	It is showing up in the weirdest places.

sd	I guess my, favorite exercise, in the gym, is the bikes.	bh	is it?

sd	and, I use to play racquetball	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I really liked that, because, you know, to me it had a point.	b	Yeah

sd	So, I don't do,	b	Yeah.

b	yeah.	sd	and that is a little less burdensome or boring to be walking at least with her.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I can put on the earphones to have something to listen to

sd	like you were talking about, walking at night and in the morning or early in the morning.	b	Yeah.

sv	you see a lot of, mostly older people though that, walk in the malls.	b	yeah.

sd	I have never tried that.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, I have never even thought about it really.	b	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	and I actually get more tired doing that, than

qy	So, are you a news person?	na	I really am,

b	Yes.	sd	I like to listen to national public radio, all things considered.

sv	great show.	aa	Yeah,

bf	so the real current news and, the hard news is not, there is not really enough of it there.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I end up switching stations from time to time.	b	Yeah .

na	in general.	b	Yeah.

sd	I watch a lot of C N N and C SPAN.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I subscribe to three newspapers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, I sort of can't get enough of this.	b	Yeah.

sd	and when I travel elsewhere, I'm often amazed at the local papers how little they have. Of world events and national events.	b	yeah.

qw	Well, in Dallas, what is the newspaper situation?	sd	Well , we, we have a big newspaper situation.

qy	was that the better paper	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't like to, you know, I like to save the editorial information or , the politically, weighted information, you know, for a different section.

b	Yes.	sd	the DALLAS MORNING NEWS is the one that's still here.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, the MORNING NEWS was, i , is okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, many times it , doesn't reflect my own opinion

qy	But if you were to look at the front page of today's MORNING NEWS MORNING TIMES rather, would you, would you see things about what is going on in Europe?	b	Uh huh.

bk	Oh.	sv	But, you know, you see, you see Troy Aikman's knee surgery on the front page, you know.

qw^d	Whoever Troy Aikman is.	b	Yeah,

bk	Okay.	qw	you know, you know what I mean

ny	Yeah.	sv	there is, local news that really a lot of times doesn't change my life one way or the other.

sv	I guess it's current events, but not the kind of current events that changes the world.	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	qo	how about you?

sd	I rather like the WASHINGTON POST.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, I also get the NEW YORK TIMES and the WALL STREET JOURNAL.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, each of them covers different things in dif , dif , in different ways	b	Right.

sv	and so you know, if I only looked at one of them I clearly would have a different perspective on the world.	aa	Right,

na	that is certainly true.	b	Uh huh.

sd	like a few days ago they had a nice article on Einstein, you know theory of relativity. You know, that started on the front page ran into almost full page inside.	bk	Oh.

sd	Now, these are feature kind of articles.	ba	Wow.

sd	all the, you know, the bulk of the paper certainly is about business kinds of activities.	b	Right.

sd	but there is some very good other articles you'll find in the JOURNAL.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I wish it were in more depth.	b	Uh huh.

sv	just more facts would be nice.	b	Uh huh.

sv	C N N has, you know, was, was pretty good during the war.	aa	yeah,

sv	and they you know, sort of had a unique vantage point for doing that reporting.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We went to the beach	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about yours?	sd	It's pretty normal for this year, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it's not been bad at all.

qy^d	You're from Virginia?	ng	I'm from Texas.

bk^m	from Texas.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	I heard they had some flooding down there.	sd	they had some flooding in Houston the other day, real, real bad I think it was over the weekend.

b	Uh huh.	sd	The radar just looked nasty with a bunch of red splotches all across it.

sd	Not really rationing water, but just cutting down.	aa	that's, that's right.

sd	but it's, changing latitude.	b	Uh huh,

aa	yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the sun has finally started popping out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'd say it's at least seventy nine, eighty, well, about seventy eight, seventy nine degrees.	qy	do you get east winds a lot of the time from the ocean

nd	actually the wind normally blows, let's see, let me think about this, south, southwest.	b	Uh huh.

ar	but actually I guess our weather pattern blows north east,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it blows north east.	sd	That's the way it does here most of the time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, sometimes it just comes straight from the north

b	Uh huh.	sd	depends on how strong the cold fronts are.

qw	how far are you from Houston?	sd	well, Richardson's a suburb of Dallas.

qy^d	so you don't get anything off the Gulf, immediately from the ocean.	ng	Hardly ever, unless there's a hurricane or something like that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I was going to say, the weather man on, one of our stations was talking about the way that the weather's doing now is like tropical weather,

sv	Bangladesh, boy, they caught it bad .	aa	Yeah.

qy^d	you probably heard about that.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	last year.	sv	Wiped everything out.

sd	and it usually comes this way .	b	Yeah.

sd	It comes up from, Miami down or, you know, around the Bahamas,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, it'll go up the coast quite a ways before it finally hits.	qy	do you get many tornados this time of year

sd	and we knew what was going on, to, you know, go downstairs or go into the bathroom and, take cover.	b	Right.

sd^e	we're, we get our share of tornados.	b	Uh huh.

nn	huh uh.	qy^d	there's just hills.

sd	We're about two hours from the beach.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we catch you know, a few winds coming off of them, I think.	b	Uh huh.

qy	you all just had a tornado, over close to Oklahoma and Texas?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they took a bunch of film of it.

ba	gosh.	sd	and it tore up the people inside the car.

bh	did it?	sd	And the camera man on the news crew held the camera out,

sv	That would have been something.	sd	I'm surprised they didn't, because we saw it on the news a couple of days in a row

b	Uh huh.	sd	But over here, it's a big thing about tornados and people that get pictures of them.

sd	I used to live in Amarillo originally.	b	Yeah

sd^e	especially in Borger, we use to sit out on our back, picnic table and watch them come out of the sky through the funnel clouds	b	Yeah.

sd	But otherwise we'd just sit back there and watch them go in and out of those clouds.	sv	It's really strange the way it does that.

b	Yeah.	sv	Especially the way it starts.

b	Yeah.	sd	and, and usually it's not even raining when it starts.

sd	but the clouds are just really, rolling kind of just real pillowy, I guess.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well I was in that, big tornado went through Wichita Falls.	b	yeah.

sd	I mean, we were right in the middle of it, when, I mean, signs and telephone poles were dropping all around us.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it was a real eerie blue green color.	b	Yeah.

sd	And the lightning was almost continuous, just, you know, as if you put your hand on one of those electric, things that causes lightning.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think it was called the storm.	aa	Yeah,

sd	But, the whole sky was full of that eerie blue green, lightning.	ba	Wow.

sd	but, when it rains, it's been downpouring.	b	Uh huh.

fc	You, too.	fc	Have fun playing tennis.

fc	thanks.	fc	Bye bye.

ad^t	Get us going.	aa	Okay.

qy	are you at T I Austin	ng	Well, I left T I in January

sd	so my daughter has talked to two students, that were non, T I ers.	sv	I think that's a, that's a good idea.

b	yeah.	b	All right.

qy	have you retired	nn	no,

bk	Oh.	sd^e	Actually I had basically set my sights to leave T I when they announced there would be no salary increases in ninety one, because I def , definitely need to make a little more money,

b	yeah.	sd	and, I haven't really accomplished that yet,

qy^d	Well, you should have a lot of information on a budget, then, if you're,	ng	I wish I did.

sv	Well, you, you deserve an honor for that, a gold star for that, I guess .	ft	Thank you,

aa	sure.	qo	how about yourself,

sd	the man always did the bills for, I don't know, fifteen years or more,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	or here's how you do the checks, you know.	b	Right.

sd	and I've been happy ever since.	ba	Well, that's great.

sd(^q)	and I said, I've been a happy man since I haven't, fooled with that checkbook, you know .	b	Oh.

sv	So I know it's a big pain to try to do that.	aa	It really is.

b	Right.	sd	You know, I'm always afraid I'm going to need some and where will it be.

b	yeah.	nn	So, no,

sv	seems to be that way.	sd	I tried to hang onto a house that was way too expensive for me,

b	Yeah.	^q	this is the reality.

qy	Do you listen to radio talk shows?	na	Sometimes I have.

ad	Listen to Bruce Williams, for financial advice.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	It's, it's five seventy up here.	aa	Well, I'll check that out.

sd	and, he gives a wealth of information, very practical stuff	qy^d	You've learned a lot.

sd	and he will help you avoid a lot of little things, financially.	ba	Well, that's good to know how,

sd	And I'm not expert, again, because, I don't really do it monthly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have one again at U T down there now, her first year,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she's almost gone through her whole college fund, you know .	ad	Excuse me, Jim,

aa	Sure, go ahead.	cc	I'll be right back.

b	Sure.	ft	Thank you.

sd^t	they give us ten minutes,	b	Oh.

ad	and you ought to, well, as your daughters approach the college age, start finding out about the scholarship monies because there is a lot of money out there	qw	and how did your daughter get scholarship money on?

sd	and, of course, if you, you score high on the S A T, you can get, you know, two thousand a year, you know, or more.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was only five hundred, dollars at a clip from this organization.	b	Uh huh.

sd	She applied and got five hundred dollars from that.	ba	Wow,

ad	So, look into that bit,	aa	I'm definitely going to be actively looking into that.

sd	and they don't even have a dozen applicants because, the kids are going off after the big money.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, There's money out there.	ba	Well, that's great to know.

sd	I don't want to, I want to chew up the whole line here.	sv	well, you're doing just fine,

sd	I call this my recession job.	ba	goodness.

sd	And I'm working nights just kind of covering, shutdown equipment and everything, and just being available, here.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, you, you got to be a little flexible.	aa	absolutely.

sd	I'm trying to study for that now.	sd	I hope you can do that.

b	Right,	sd	what I did is

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I really enjoyed it while I was at T I,

b	yeah.	sd	And, I'm out trying to sell telephone systems to businesses.

b	Right.	sd	And the potential there is fantastic.

b	sure.	sd	The reality of it is it's tough .

sv	Well, it's tough right now for everybody.	aa	Exactly.

sd	I've got another clue for you for college.	b	Uh huh.

sd^r	Another clue for you for college money.	b	Okay.

sd	we have a friend who is a secretary for T C U, you know, up here?	b	Yes.

sd	They give you scholarship, a hundred percent, if you work for T C U.	bh	They do?

ad	So check that one out, you know.	aa	I'm going to check that.

ad	Call them.	aa	Definitely, I will.

sd	Now, it's, not room and board,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it's tuition, full tuition paid if your parent works at T C U.	ba	Well, that sounds fantastic.

sv	and it's sometimes a very, it's a very hard juggling act.	aa	I agree .

sd(^q)	and I keep saying jeez, I don't have that much time with her .	b	Yeah.

sd	And she's growing fast	sd	I know that I have three children.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I stay home.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, I know that it must be really challenging to, try to juggle a job and also your children.

aa	Exactly.	sd	And I also notice that the children that come over here to play that go to daycare every day they don't like to be around adults.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They don't want to play around adults.

b	Sure.	sd	And they're the very same age as my children.

aa	Exactly.	sd	And I'm finding as I volunteer up at the school, I just, being,

b^r	sure.	sv	And you can just tell in their personalities and how they respond to the adults the ones that are home and the ones even that are at home that are getting the love and attention that they need.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Not that the kids that go out aren't getting that

b^r	yeah.	sv	it's just a different,

b	Sure.	sv	they're not use to being with adults and to responding to adults.

b	Yeah,	sv	I think the trend in the United States,

sv	and that's part of it too.	b	Right.

sv	and it's nice	b	Right.

sv	because our financial situations are as, it almost takes two people to bring in an income to support a family now	sv	It's hard.

sv	and you're not getting any further, you know, along	b	Right.

sv	and it's a tough one.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think with working moms, if you can get the bosses to give you almost like a rotation like they're going to do with year round school where you work,

o	Okay.	b	All right,

bf	kind of like a domino's effect.	aa	Right.

nn^r	No.	sd	I vaguely recall

sv	I think people just started, you know, not being as careful with the loans that they were making you know, whenever they gave them out.	b	Uh huh.

sv	or maybe because everyone else was doing they figured they would just go ahead and approve it also	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	sv	It seems like there were on awful a lot of people making loans and business decisions on a

b	Uh huh.	sv	or I just since that they didn't have a commitment to the stability of the organizations they were making the decisions for.

b	Uh huh	qy^d	And I don't know whether that's because they had other opportunities to which they could move, you know, that it was that easy for them to find new work that they weren't stuck to where they were

no	I'm not sure.	qrr^d	Or whether they had extracted enough money in a percentage base that they didn't care any more,

sd	I'm a finance major here at Clarion.	b	Okay.

sv(^q)	because they were like well, we have a hundred thousand dollars insurance on it.	qy^d	Well, they didn't have a since of risk.

sd^e	I don't think so.	bk	okay.

sd	and like some banks, you know, they're limited to the types of loans that they're allowed to make.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I think the S and L s were more open with the types of loans that they were allowed to make.	bk	Okay.

sv	And I think if they would be more bound to certain loans and not as high of insurance by the reserve, then I don't think this would have happened.	bk	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	is your since that we now understand how bad it is, / * listen

sv	and I think it will be for awhile.	bf	So you don't think necessarily they don't have a complete grasp yet,

sv	I don't think how they could find how much was really lost or how much they were going to lose, because there still are some S and Ls still open.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And it's very possible for them to go down in the future because of this.	bf	To be caught in the .

aa^r	uh huh.	qy	Do you think possibly that it will help with the regular banks?

sv	but I think there are some regular banks that will go down with it.	sd	It seems that I recall reading let's say starting three years a go but not so much in the last year of bank risks relative to the loaning funds to third world countries like Mexico, Venezuela. and Argentina based on oil loans

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then the price of oil had gone south resulting in those loans being very risky,

sd	but they just wrote off like millions of dollars because they know they will never get it back.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's impossible to get it back.	bf	And so you think that it's just gone.

sv	cause we're, you know, we're talking about some peens that have just like even gave up on like getting it back and trying any more.	b	Okay.

sv	They just totally wrote it off their book.	qy	Do you think it is necessary to have the federal guaranty program

b	Oh.	sv	so I guess I feel like as long as we have the possibility for this large numbers of people to be protected the possibility exist for these sorts of problems.

sv	as long as there's enough little companies we're going to have to have something.	bf	so your since is that, the loan guaranties really were accounts guaranties, so that the account holders that if something went wrong they would have their money.

aa	Right.	bf	And given that the S and Ls have had disasters then are, their money is still being protected.

aa	Uh huh.	bf	And it's million of people with anywhere from thousands to tens of thousands I guess of, Of dollars being protected.

aa	Uh huh.	sv	it seems like, there was a lot of money being protected in multiple accounts,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And perhaps multiple people in multiple S and Ls

b	Yeah.	sd	I guess I'm content with the need to have protection on accounts

b	Uh huh.	sd	and let alone any of them that went bankrupt.

aa	I think it could happen,	sd	because that means, I'm not worried enough,

b	yeah,	sv	it's kind of thing where maybe we'll survive

sv	and I think there is a chance of it possibly happen again but not until, you know, late, you know, in the future.	aa	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	maybe we have learned a little bit of a lesson here about what happens if you remove a little of the regulation,

sd	I work as a news reporter,	b	Oh.

sd	this is my first job	b	Uh huh.

sd	and another day I'll be on camera,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I'll wear a pant suit in case I have to shoot.	b	Yeah,

sd	I don't really like dressing up at all.	sd	me neither .

sd	I don't wear a lot of makeup or anything like that.	b	Yeah.

h	and I don't know .	b	Yeah,

sd	I don't mind it at all.	sd	I work at a bakery because I'm still a, a college student.

b	Okay.	sd	But, we have to wear white pants and, any color T shirt, as long as it's not like a bright color, like a pastel.

qy^d	White pants in a bakery.	ny	Yeah.

ba	Wow.	ny^r	Yeah,

bk	Okay.	sd	And we wear aprons and have to pull our hair back

qy^d	Italian I guess.	ny	Yeah ,

sd	that's one thing I would like, is just to sort of have, I really don't like uniforms but, } just to have something I don't have to get up and decide what to wear.	b	yeah.

sd	That just bugs me to death.	aa	I know .

b	yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

qy^d	Sweats and.	ny	Yeah.

sd	when I was in school, I was a sweat monster.	b	Yeah .

sd	and when it was time to go out, I didn't have anything to wear.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't need them yet .

sd	If I didn't have to have shoes, I wouldn't have them.	b	really.

sd	and they're just tedious	b	Oh.

sd	I wear size nine	b	Oh.

sd	and I just wish that I could just go without them.	sd	wow, I love shoes.

b	really.	sd	I always buy shoes .

b	Oh.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I could then I would be able to dress more business like and things like that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we're all kind of just out of school at this station,	b	Yeah.

sd	and so we're all, you know, still in sweats, really.	b	Oh.

sd	So, it's pretty fun though.	sd	I like the, the like suit look, professional like, you know, look,

b	Yeah.	sd	 I'm going to be a teacher,

sd	they come like with a mini type skirt you know, and the jacket.	b	yeah.

sd	but but I'm pretty short,	b	Yeah,

sd	but I think it looks good on taller people.	b	Yeah.

bh	Are you? .	ny	Yeah.

sd	I mean, I have like two pairs of pants, because I can never find any that are short enough for me	bh	really?

sd	Pants, too, I could do without those.	b	Oh.

sd	Pants, shoes.	sd	I like the like stretch pants, the cotton ones.

sv	those are nice.	sv	They're really comfortable.

sv^r	Those are nice.	sv	With a baggy sweatshirt.

sd	They're kind of big and hefty tennis shoes.	b	yeah.

sd	And it's just like a chore to pick up my feet. Because I'm used to wearing the little white girl tennis shoes.	b	Oh .

sd	The little ones.	sd	I have a pair of those.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	And I'm used to those.	b	Yeah.

qo	So , so, so how do people in Wisconsin dress?	b	yeah .

b^m	Warm.	sd	Sweaters and.

sv	Like five pairs of socks and,	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

qy	is it doing any good?	sv	I think that the space program has done a lot of good for the country.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think some of the earlier approaches were much better in many ways.

sd	Wish our post office could do that .	sd	I wish the post office would just stop raising our rates.

sd	I wish they'd just deliver stuff.	sv	I think, though, now that we're finally starting to get over the fears and I don't know, the guilt that we had out of, Challenger,

b	Uh huh.	h	But, I don't know.

aa	I agree.	sv	The space station's where we should go at this point.

sv	and I don't think we should cut the money.	qo	Well, where do you think we ought to go with it?

sv	and, I think they lose sight of probably what they're supposed to be doing.	qy^g	Well, I think about half the nations now are military related, are they not?

ny^r	yes.	sv	And, It seems like that high a percentage.

sv	and, you know, with Russia, seemingly not going to be as big a threat.	sv	Well, it can't afford to .

qy	Have you gone out to, Fort Worth to see the Soviet space exhibit?	nn	No,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	We need to go.

sd	They have done a beautiful job.	bh	Have they?

sd	and the loading of it	b	yes.

sd	It is really interesting.	sv	Well, maybe I need to run out there this weekend.

sd	We got out there about, ten, ten thirty,	qy	Now do you have to have tickets ahead?

sd	and one child gets in free.	sd	I think both of my kids are too old for that

qy^d	You have teenagers or something.	ny	Yes,

sd	they really did like it.	qy^d	It's very impressive, I'm sure.

sd	because they had one of those moon vehicles and had it so it looked like it was on the moon, and showed it moving around and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So it was really neat.	ba	Well, see, that's something else.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and see we've yet to keep anyone up over over a week or ten days.

sd	I was thinking about camping and people's ideas about it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they got the big old antennas up so they can watch their T V when they're going.	aa	Right or their satellite dish .

b	Yeah	sd	On top of the recreational vehicles.

qy	Do you go camping?	ny	Yeah.

sd	In fact, when we first got married, we would try to take these trips to Minnesota to see his family	b	Uh huh.

sd	so we'd sleep on those picnic tables at roadside parks.	ba	no.

sd	And this ranger comes up with this light, shines it on us and said that we're just bear bait out there. We had our food you know. } and told us to get inside our car.	b	Oh.

b^r	Bear bait.	sd	That would make me nervous .

b	Yeah.	qy	Have you done any camping around here?

sd^e	We've got some land at Holly Lake outside of Tyler.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	Sometimes we get a lot of people together to do it.	b	Yeah.

sd	but we've got the fans going.	b	Right .

sd	So we're not roughing it too much.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we have taken T V s out there for the kids .	b	Yeah.

ba	So it's not so bad.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think the longest we've stayed out there is like five days.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they had a library at one time out there.	b	Oh.

sd	but we have gone on trips where we bathed in streams.	ny	Yeah.

ba	That's kind of different.	aa	Yeah

sv	And a pool to go to.	aa	Uh huh.

ba	That would be nice.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there was nobody else, hardly, around

sd	Well my husband has even camped at Lake Lavon with one of his friends	bh	really?

sd	he just decided to take the kids out there.	b	Yeah.

sd	But they had the time of their lives, you know.	b	yeah

sd	Had the boat just pulled up right by the tents.	b	Uh huh.

ba	It wasn't bad.	ba	That sounds nice.

sd	And most of the time we decided we wanted to stay in a hotel.	b	Yeah.

sd	Instead of getting out all that stuff, you know.	b	Yeah,

sd	Then you have to get up the next day and move it on.	aa	Right .

sd	We decided that was easier than cots and more comfortable.	aa	Yeah.

qy^d	Those double ones?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	We're on our third one I think.	b	Yeah.

sd	We've got an electric pump that hooks into the cigarette lighter.	bk	Oh.

qy^d	I didn't know you could do that.	sd	And, yeah, you can, if you can reverse the, nozzle on your vacuum cleaner

b	Yeah.	sd	and it blows air out instead of sucking it in

qy^d	I hope you didn't have a big vacuum cleaner.	nn	No.

sd	Now we've used a hair dryer before.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I put it on hot and also melted it.	ba	no .

sd	I found that you don't do that.	b	Yeah.

sd	I didn't realize it would melt so easily.	b	Oh.

sd	I don't know.	sd	we take our dog camping.

b	Yeah.	sd	she sleeps in the tent with us.

sd	I don't like it when there's mosquitos so bad.	sd	me either.

sd	It was just that bad, you know .	ba	no.

sd	And we decided we'd just go across the road to the office and see if we could rent anything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it was wonderful.	ba	boy .

b	Yeah.	ba	That was lucky.

aa	it was.	sd	We've been lucky.

sd	It's horrible.	ba	I bet it,

qy	You mean that you put on a truck or what?	nn	No.

b^r	yeah.	sd	the little tent comes up the top

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it had two double beds in it.

qw^t	How many weeks have you been doing these calls?	sd^t	since the beginning.

qy	So do you work for T I?	na	well, I work as a temporary in the Speech Lab.

qy^m	In a Speech Lab?	ny	Uh huh.

qw	And what exactly are they going to do?	sd	they turn them over to somebody

bf	So any voice, no matter what the speech pattern or the dialect or anything.	aa	Right.

qy^d	I wonder if these are going to be speaking . The computers,	no	I don't know.

ba	that's kind of neat.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Do you put all the uh huhs in here on everything, too.	ny	Uh huh.

qw	What do you write for stutter?	sd(^q)	Like if they say I, I, we just type it in like that.

b	Uh huh.	sv^t	Well, I guess that's it for camping, .

ad	You need metal instead of plastic.	aa	Yeah.

ad	And you make sure that you keep up with them for the next time.	aa	Yeah.

sd	and you just put them together.	b	uh huh.

sd	And it's a dome tent.	b	Yeah,

qy^g	That's good isn't it .	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	qy	Have you ever camped on sand?

nn	no.	sd	That can be a mess.

sd	I've done it in a shelter.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was in Padre Island and in a truck off Corpus, not, but not in a tent.	b	Oh.

fc	well, that's about all .	fc	Okay.

fc^m	Okay .	fc	Well, it's good talking to you.

fc	Uh huh.	fc	Bye.

sd	and, the taxes that I pay, I guess as a general statement, I feel I guess I get my money's worth for.	b	Okay.

sv	I guess I am sure that I feel that, in general, though, the allocation, of the taxes in certain areas, isn't correct.	sv	Well, I'm sure that, probably every person in this country would agree with you on that. Because everybody has a different idea of where the money should go.

sv	and I'm not really sure that we've gotten our money's worth there, regardless of the outcome of the Desert Storm, Desert Shield, situations.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I take that as a given in any military operation	aa	yeah,

sd	but, I'm just getting nervous again, now hearing the voices come up that there has to be increased expenditures in that area.	b	Yeah,

sd	I do worry about what nuclear weapons are left in their territory over there, and who's controlling them,	aa	that's true,

sd	I don't know what amount of, our hardware would stop some fanatic, I guess, from doing anything, that would be irrational.	sd	Well, of course now, we used up twenty per cent of that inventory, in a matter of just a few weeks,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, T I also makes the missile, which was the T V laser guided bombs

b	Yeah.	sd	and, a big percentage of that was expended, as well,

qw	what is the name of that?	sd	it's called Paveway.

b^r	yes.	sd	And, a big percentage of that was used up during that conflict also.

sv	I see where the infrastructure is sort of breaking down, the roads, the highways.	aa	no doubt.

sv	but I guess overall, because I guess I'm not associated with what ghetto schools, and, and, rural school systems are like, I should imagine that would take an enormous expenditure.	aa	Yeah,

qrr	or is it all funded out of local taxes?	^h	okay,

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	Then we had a number of education reforms, that the legislature said, hey, we got to do this, we got to do this, we got to do this,

sv	Sounds like the way the federal and state system works now.	b	Really.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, so what ended up happening was a, was a shift.

qy@	do you mean a complete reversal? Because, I guess, they can't raise that money in those poorer districts,	na	complete.

b	Yeah.	sd	but, I am opposed to, any attempts to restrict, local communities from taxing themselves above that to provide above the minimum.

sd	I have, a, a, a background of, getting my college education through the G I Bill.	sd	So did I.

sd	I don't think I would have gone on, unless I had that financial easement made possible.	b	Yeah.

sd	or I guess the enactment of that form of legislation, would give many people who, I think, I think I perceive the fact,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I guess it would be for fifteen hundred dollars a year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They went from eleven to fifteen hundred,	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know what that would be.	b	Yeah,

sv	and, the states don't have enough money	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm not too sure of that reasoning.	b	Yeah.

sd	in Germany or in England in some cases people in my income level, at least, allege that they pay up to fifty five percent of their gross income in taxes.	ba	I can believe that.

sd	now it costs me money to leave the country, some sort of a tax to leave the country, some sort of an airport departure tax, a sales tax which is getting to, quite high levels,	b	Yeah,

sd	I'm not sure that I'm not up fairly close to that.	sv	Well, I guarantee you'd be paying a lot more in taxes if, the Democrats had more say.

qy	You really think so?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I pay quite a bit more taxes	b	Yeah.

sv	but that's been a Republican government for the last ten years.	sv	Well, what, what they've been able to do is slow down the rate of increase . to keep it from becoming even more obnoxious.

b	Yeah.	fc	Well, this has been really interesting,

fc	Don, good talking with you.	fc	Nice talking with you, too.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

fp	and I'm calling from Plano, Texas.	fp	Hi,

qy	would you like me to go first?	na	Sure.

sd	it's a preschool	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess you can classify them all together.	b	Uh huh.

sd	some of the qualifications that I look for was you know, the cost, and, exactly what they did, if it was structured or nonstructured, if they had a little academic, in there, and, you know, you know, what the qualifications of the teachers' were, and if the place was clean and the hours	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, just kind of going by word of mouth and finding out if anybody else has been pleased with their program that kind of stuff.	b	Right.

ba	congratulations.	ft	Thanks.

b	Right.	sd	We haven't quite decided if I'm going to,

qy^d	Or staying home.	sd	But if we do, then I'm going to need to find somebody,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we know a lot of people at the church

sd	and that's where Shannon had started, in a Mother's Day Out program	b	Uh huh.

ad	and you have to make sure that you apply pretty early, because a lot of places have very long waiting lists.	aa	Uh huh.

ad	and another question to ask is if they're, state certified you know, if the teachers have, their Master's degree in child education and child development.	aa	Okay.

sv	when your child's a little bit older, like a three year old you'd be more concerned with if there's a type of care that it's torture for them to lay down and take a nap.	b	Uh huh.

qh	Is there like a mandatory nap time?	b	Time, uh huh.

sd	and the other ones get up and go do something else.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, she doesn't have to necessary take a nap there you know, which is nice.	b	Right.

aa	That's true.	sv	and so, I guess it's such a growing concern,

sv	and sometimes you even consider, you know, having a private person come to your own home when they're real little or or something like that,	b	Right.

qh	and another consideration is what's the ratio of teachers to to children	^2	To children.

qh	just your child, or do they just put any child in any crib you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you would want, maybe, your child to have their own sheets all the time, and not have another child use that bed you know.	b	Right.

sv	I'm sure that, whatever you decide, you'll be happy with.	b	Yeah .

sv	And it's exciting time to have a new one .	aa	Yeah.

ba	that's wonderful.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I figure, you know, I'd probably start asking around at church because I know they have a limit as to how old they can be you know, before you can bring them in.

sd	some places, start them as early as, I think, well, some, some places take them as infants, I guess, you know, like eight weeks, even.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, some places just specialize in just real little ones	b	Right.

sd	and then other ones, are the older children.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think the last thing I did of any significance was change the water pump on an Oldsmobile.	b	Yeah,

ba	I know what you mean.	sd	So, you know, changing the oil, changing the spark plugs

^2	or fuel injected,	sv	so there goes the carburetor

sd(^q)	and I said that means that I can't work on it.	b	yeah,

sv	You know, they've gotten so complicated or so high tech that, average guys can't really go out in the garage and do a whole lot of repairs,	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	It's got the, the good old three fifty, standard engine in it.

aa	Absolutely.	sd	Regular gas engine,

sd	it was a short van, that had the three fifty in it.	b	Yeah.

sd	and you didn't have all the other junk around it,	b	Right.

sd	and you could get to it to work on it.	b	Yeah,

sv	the hardest part about, water pump changes is getting all the junk off, before you can get too it.	aa	Well that's true .

sd	and I don't think I had too many nuts and bolts left over when I got it all put back together.	sd	A few years ago I had an Oldsmobile diesel

b@	yeah. Yeah.	sd	And, the injector pump went bad

sd	I don't think I'd know where to start with a diesel.	sv	diesels don't require mechanics,

sd	and, we used to overhaul farm tractors basically,	b	Yeah.

sd	but as far as cars I've never, never been involved with them.	sd	Well the injector nozzle and stuff in, you know, the big diesel farm tractors, you know, what are about the size of your thumb,

sv	and you can get to them.	aa	yeah

b	Yeah.	sd	He was out at Tech

sd	I don't notice it, probably because I don ,	qw	What,

sd	but maybe because I'm not looking for it.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and it was the van that I needed then, to buy the, you know,

qy	But you got the three fifty in the van?	ny	Yeah,

sv	and, if you treat them right, they're not the gas guzzlers I think that they've got the reputation to be.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I'm convinced that, Detroit or whoever it is made a major mistake, years ago when they stopped putting the small V eights in and went to the fours and some of the sixes.	b	Yeah

sv	I'm convinced that the small V eight like the Mustang's original two eighty nine or some of the Chevy two eighty threes, were good little V eight engines that were not gas guzzlers	b	Uh huh.

sv	but they had enough power t , pull all this weight.	b	Yeah.

sv	And the four cylinders just don't have it.	sd	I think the little Chevy V eight when it started out in fifty five, I think was two sixty five, something like that.

b	Yeah.	sv	Little, you know, not whole lot more than the, than the six cylinder that I think was like about two thirty five or so.

sv	I think those little V eights could have been made to be pretty powerful little engines, if they would have gone with it,	sv	Well that was a short stroke engine it could really wind up.

b	yeah.	sd	The two little cars I've got now,

sd	it was a three seven or something like that,	b	Yeah.

sd	and there was basically nothing in there but an engine, and a few things.	b	Uh huh,

sv	Now, you open the hood and it's scary.	b	Yeah.

aa	Like you say it takes a plumber to figure out where all this stuff goes.	sd	The friend of ours over here, he's got, sixty five, or sixty six Mustang the six cylinder.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I was look under the hood of that the other day

b	Yeah.	sv	It's amazing.

sv	Well if you had to you could climb up in there and do what you needed to.	sv	yeah, you could stand in there if you really wanted to, I guess.

sd	It's one of those transverse mounted V sixes, front wheel drive.	b	yeah.

sd	And he'd never really thought about it.	b	Yeah.

sd	it's going to be a problem getting back there because it was shoved right up against the fire wall.	b	Yeah.

sd	So they just about complicated the things so much that shade tree mechanics can't do much with them.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it had all the air pump and, I don't know, all that stuff.

sd	the anti smog pumps.	aa	And all the anti smog stuff.

sv	And all that stuff loads the motor down.	aa	Uh huh,

sd	and it's got one, belt on it a serpentine belt.	qy^d	it's that one that's about, what an inch and a half wide.

ny	Yeah.	qy^d	Got a bunch of groves in it.

sd	I've got an, an Olds Toronado that, I think's got six belts on the sucker.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I had to get all those off, you know, when I was replace that, water pump.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, I had to struggle with that for a while to figure which belt goes where.	b	Yeah,

ba	man.	sv	it's the, it's usually that power steering be ,

sv	everything else's got to come off first.	aa^m	Everything's got to come off.

fc	so I guess I've done probably, I'd say seven or eight of them.	fc	Yeah,

fc	so I don't know, if it's tapering off, or what.	fc	If it's winding down or what.

fc	I had a difficult time the past couple of times of getting, answers.	fc	Finding a taker.

fc	maybe they're burnt out or,	fc^m	Yeah, well.

fc	Thanks for talking.	fc	Okay,

sv	national health insurance, I think, is a problem inasmuch as the quality of health care that people would receive.	b	Right.

sd	stay in line for, four hours to get an aspirin from a doctor.	b	Right.

b	I see.	sd	and that way they are able to reduce prices because you know, it's all one centralized thing.

sv	Well, I think that, again having gone through a period when I was out of work and had to buy health insurance on my own, if you don't have a company picking up the major portion of your health insurance, the cost is almost prohibitive.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but for dependent coverage I'm paying a hundred and seventy dollars a month or something like that.	b	Right.

sd	They're probably picking up about half of it.	b	Right.

sd@	or one of, whatever the type name is, H M O, where you go to the doctor and it only costs you ten dollars and the insurance picks up the rest. If you tried to buy something like that, it would probably be five or six hundred dollars a month for just the cost of something.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I forget how much I paid a month

b	Yeah.	sd	And, the reason I quite was not because I didn't like it,

b	Yeah.	sd	so, we went to the, the medical insurance that we have here at work,

b	Yeah.	sv	once you find the doctor that you like it's not a problem.

aa	that's right.	sd	and then, we did find several good doctors.

ba	goodness.	sd@	that included, you know, the doctors, the time, the hospital an , everything. Delivery room and everything.

b	Yeah.	sd	including a private room because there was a little extra that she had to pay

b	Yeah.	sv	It's really nice because th , you know, their, their attitude is different than a regular, health insurance, in a, H M O, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	they charge five dollars

b	Yeah.	sv	you're more willing to go in and try, to take care of a problem before it grows big.

sv	As to a company's benefit, to have a program like that because it keeps their employees healthy and on the job.	b	Yeah.

sv	Because they don't have to worry about going in and paying, seventy five dollars to have the doctor look at you for ten minutes.	b	Right.

sv	But here again the doctor's practices in hospitals, have become fairly sizable businesses under themselves now.	b	Uh huh.

sv	you have to pay your share of the operating of that eight story building, when the rooms are empty.	b	Right.

sv	and, that's how you come up with aspirin that costs four dollars apiece and things like that. The horror stories that you hear about people going into the hospital for a week and, it being, a four thousand dollar bill.	b	Right.

b	Right.	sv	You know, they get a lot of, people who just have to be there and can't afford it

b	Yeah.	sv	so they, have to absorb it somewhere else.

sd	he'll be three in August.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, their insurance plan that they're under encourages you to shorten your stay in the hospital.	b	Right.

sd	and she was out in two days time.	b	Right.

sd	And it was treated almost like it was an outpatient visit to the hospital,	b	Right.

sd	the deductibles didn't apply.	b	Right.

^q	if you'll shorten your stay then we will, waive the deductible.	aa	Right.

qo	well what do you do on your yard?	sd	Well, typical lawn stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and really all I do to it is,

qy^d	Comes back in the yard	ny	Yeah.

qy	You do it yourself?	na	I do it myself.

sd	we do too.	sd	Have a lot of people trying to do it for me .

sv	A flyer's on every door every day.	sd	Hey, I need the exercise,

sd	but I keep putting off learning.	sv	Hey, you've got the right idea.

sd	and so while my husband was painting I went out and bought about fifty dollars worth of mums over at Calloway's	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And I went, Well, now you tell me.	b	Yeah .

sd	I haven't gone out to check yet.	b	Yeah,

sd	And we did not know in August to put down the, whatever it is for grub worms.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you ever seen it what grub worms do?	ny	Yeah.

sd	so the most careful thing we do on our yard every August is put down that Diazinon.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	we found them	bk	Okay.

sd	and they said they turn into black bugs in the spring	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and some people call them May beetles.

sd	They said that every yard has some	b	yeah.

sd	So that's the number one thing we do, whether we fertilize or anything else, just because we got burned so badly before.	b	Yeah,

qy	two years ago, or last Christmas is that what you're talking about?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I caught Wolfe with, one of the sales where they have those big blocks for fifty cents,

sd	It's what they've done in the spring or the fall.	sv	that was late,

sd	because I started to say, there's different times they say it's okay to do it.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I had to water it, you know

b	Yeah	fe	gosh.

sd	and they just live,	aa	Yeah,

sv	you can stand those.	sd	Pittosporum is kind of borderline here

b	Uh huh.	sd	and usually it'll do pretty well,

b	Yeah.	sd	and it zaps it.

sd	And every year we learn one more thing that we didn't know before. Like about these mums.	b	Yeah.

sd	next year, I'll do pansies.	sv	Your list is growing,

sd	so the first summer he was here he dug up all of my bushes and plants and brought them to the front door and the back door and laid them on the patio.	b	yeah,

sd	and if there's anything he'll hurt, we just don't put it out there any more.	b	Yeah,

aa	Very much,	sd	I had a small vegetable garden that,

b	You did.	sd	It did pretty well,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, our garages come in you know, from the alley

sd	So do ours,	sd	and, it's a little piece of land over there .

qw	What did you grow?	sd	Well, I had, tomatoes and, peppers,

ba	That is amazing.	sd	and by the fence I had cucumbers, which didn't do real well,

b	Yeah.	sd	they kind of came out looking like gourds.

ad(^q)	and you say, well, I made it though, at least it's mine.	sd	But I had squash,

sd	but I do have a personal computer on my desk here.	qy	A type of work station?

sd	it does the things I need for it to do.	qy	Is it a two eighty six or three eighty six base machine?

sd^e	it's not even that.	qy	It's eighty eighty eight?

na	I think that's about where it is.	bk	Okay.

sd	I do, some Lotus on it. do some, Samna, some, P F M, nothing extremely complex.	b	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I have I B M clones in both cases.

b	Yep.	sd	Here at work I have the T I one thousand which is a three eighty six base machine.

ba	I bet that's a pretty nice setup.	aa	Yes,

b	Yep.	sd	for example, I was messing around with a spreadsheet this weekend that's a third of a meg in beta size.

ba	Wow.	sd	And I know that, brings an eighty eighty eight machine to it's knees because , I had taken it over from a friend who was working on it

b	Yep.	sd	and it brought it to it's knees. Just in the ability to handle.

ba	Wow.	sd	And then I have, a three eighty six F X a sixteen bit machine, at home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm really pleased with it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It manages to take care of all my home needs in terms of word processing and spreadsheets and, database searches.

b	Uh huh.	sd	what I've gotten into more recently are the tools to use them.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	To try to make them more effective and useful.

b	Right.	qy	Have you been, struggling along those lines?

sd	So, I can never quite stay current with that.	sv	Well, I think you will be real pleased to get away from the banana as I used to call it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	at least the version I had tended to keep copies of that. Of what you were changing and deleting off in memory until all of a sudden you got a disc full error. Not a fun thing to try to recover from.

ba	I can bel , I can believe that.	sd	Very frustrating.

sd	I'm not that up be on that sort of thing.	sd	Well, it's just a huge file that tries to describe the requirements of what you're trying to build. to one level down from assistant description.

sv	well, it sounds like you're pretty much into computers.	aap	Well, I sure need them.

sv	Well, it's been interesting.	aa	Yes,

sv	of course, needs and wants aren't necessarily the same thing.	ba	Well, I understand that , you know.

qy	is that the newest thing now, the four eighty six?	na	Right.

bf	that must be a fairly recent release.	aap	came out around the first of the year.

sd	but I didn't know they had a four eighty six just yet.	sd	It does a few more things, than had been available before.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I'm not sure that it's such a massive improvement. you know,

fc	and you have a good day.	fc	You do the same.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qo	How about yourself?	sd	we have two and another one on the way.

qy^d	you have got, young children then.	ny	Well, yeah,

ba	That is great.	b	Yeah.

qy	A boy and a girl?	ng	Two boys.

b^m	Two boys.	sd^m	Two boys .

qy	Do you know what is on the way yet?	nn	No.

ba	I do not blame you .	sd	We like surprises.

sd^r	Well, we have got two boys and a girl .	qy	are the two boys first?

sv	maybe you will get lucky and get a girl this time.	aa	Maybe,

sd	and the Navy is sending him for his Masters in Ocean Engineering	ba	my goodness.

sd	So, we have got, still, all sorts of good activities since,	aa	yeah.

sd	so she goes out riding as much as she can.	qy	Do you have horses?

nn	No .	qy^g	just, she knows people that does,

sd	She rides English, and does jumping, takes lesson and all that kind of stuff.	bh	does she?

sd	well it is a program for Advanced kids.	^2	Advanced.

b	okay.	sd	So, I do know about that program

sd	So, it keeps them busy.	b	uh huh.

sd^r	It keeps them busy.	aa	yeah

sd^e	well you probably know a peace group that are advanced type. That they are special, well, classes for peace classes.	b	Yeah.

sd	history is what their peace class is this year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	she enjoys that kind of stuff and, does well with it.	ba	how neat.

ny	Yeah.	bk	Oh.

sd^e	Always something to do .	sd	Well, as far as our activities, we are kind of on a different level here.

sv	I guarantee it.	aa	Yeah,

b	okay.	sd	They like to,

ba	That will be fun.	sv	both boy things .

aa^r	yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

ad	Got to wait a couple years.	aa	Yeah,

ad	Tobogganing.	br	The what?

ad	You have got to go tobogganing and sledding with them.	aa	well yeah,

sd	Well you are welcome to keep that .	b	Yeah .

sd	and when I was a kid,	bk	Oh.

sd	but we use to take all of the kids tobogganing and ice skating, and all of that kind of stuff	b	Yeah.

sv	it is fun really.	aa^m	It is fun.

sv	As long as you do not have to drive in it.	aa	Yeah.

sd	but keep it off of here .	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yes.	sd	come about this time of year I am kind of ready for it to start getting spring,

sd	Well, you have got, You have got five months before you will see that .	aa	Yeah,

sd	I think I'm down to one.	ba	my gosh,

sd^e	I was pulling your leg.	bk	Oh.

sd	the way I'd like to try and use it is, you, you make your purchases at prime buying time	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then you pay that off and don't use it until, it's paid off.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's my ideal way .	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I and I use it.	b	Yeah

sd	like, my car, had a major problem, seven hundred dollars,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and things just come up	b	Right,

sv	and you just never get to use it the way you'd really like to.	aa	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I try not to use them too often.

b	Yeah.	sv	So, sometimes you have no other choice if you need to buy something.

sd	and I was just starting to get to where it was getting me in trouble	b	Right.

sd	so we just disposed of them, paid them off, and got out of it.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

ny^r	yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	Well, now we pretty much just pay cash for as much as we can there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so and I have that for automotive purposes.	b	Uh huh,

sv	it's just too easy, basically, just get yourself in trouble with those.	aa	Yeah,

b	I see.	sd	so that I use, because I travel some.

sv	and then they just keep wanting you to increase your limit	b	Uh huh.

sd	and if I can get one that'll keep my limit at five hundred and I can never go over that or something like then that's fine,	b	Uh huh.

sv	eventually get's up there to ten thousand, whatever fifty thousand	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't want that.	sv	the temptation's too great.

sv	writing checks is just as easy I guess.	aa	Yeah,

fc	Yeah,	fc	Yeah,

fc	or you don't like them.	fc	Uh huh.

fc	and. And, then, maybe we'll talk again.	fc	Okay,

fc	Yeah.	fc^m	Yeah.

fc	Texas is the big one.	fc	Yeah,

fc	Well, bye now.	fc	okay,

sd	I've, read a lot of the, the, astronomy books and, and stuff like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I haven't kept up as, much as I would like,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've just been so busy,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I barely get a chance to read a newspaper now and then,	b	Yeah.

sv	but I'm probably getting a little too old for that.	sv	Well, I know if they make the advances that they have been making, that, maybe age or even physical, abilities may not be, a barrier anymore.

sv	I think a lot of our technology we have is quite a bit due to lot of the space travel, equipment and stuff that,	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, that vacuum , little space program was one of the big, you know, backers of that.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's amazing, you know,

sd	and and, you know, he talks a lot on Velcro.	ny	Uh huh,

qh	i , what would we do without it? .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	I guess there was a lot of buttons and a lot of zippers and snaps.

h	I don , I don't know	aa	That's right.

qh	it's also just I've often pictured, in my mind, you know, what would you find if you just kept on going?	aa	Uh huh.

sv	I guess our minds are so, what is it? finite	b	Uh huh.

sv	when we try and picture the universe as an infinite object, and it's hard to see, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's hard to consider that something could go on indefinitely.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	b	But, yeah,

sv	I think it's in people's nature to be the first to do something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I'd love to be the first one to step on a planet or some like, you know,	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think, it's in everyone's nature to some degree to want to get out and explore something they haven't, or experience something, you know, indifferent.

sv	I think that's what made us, progress to the state we are is our curiosity.	aa	sure.

sv	A better place to be or whatever, you know	b	Uh huh.

sv	So you are always looking for something better.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and, it's, I'm always looking for something better.	b	Yeah .

sv	There's a better way of doing it than what we are doing it.	aa	That's right.

sv	and, you know, just because they don't talk about it or something like that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And they are doing it you know, unconsciously.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But you just don't think about them.

b	Right.	aa	And that's true.

qy^t	Was that you, that we didn't hear the whole prompt?	ny	Yes,

sd	and, I was thinking about it after I got off the phone, that I really, you know, wish that there was some way to, send a message to people, you know, about, child abuse and things like that	b	Uh huh.

sv	Too often I feel that people get off, without,	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, and I guess before I'd like to see that severe of a punishment for it it has to be an absolute certainty you know, like, caught at it, or something

aa^r	right,	sd	you know, or if they, you know, severely beat up on a child, you know, I would have absolutely no problem at all you know, with,

b	Yeah,	sd	I don't buy the routine, they're just sick,

b	Uh huh.	sv	well, you know, forget that.

sv	well, sometimes they even wonder when, criminals plead temporary insanity for punish , for crimes that are so severe and then, you know, they get sent to a mental institution	b	Uh huh.

sv	and then they're back out in public.	sd	Well, but I can't see that either.

aa^r	I agree,	sv	I think if I wanted to badly enough, I could convince somebody, I was crazy ,

sv(^q)	well, she looked like my mother who abused me when I was a child, or something, which I think is, unfortunate for that person and yet shouldn't be an excuse.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I was just seeing in the newspaper or the grocery store that some Miss America was abused by the man she loved	sd	That's the new one.

sd	and that kind of worries me with my kids only being under two and not having, you know, to deal with that yet,	aa	Well, you're right,

ng	Never	bk	No,

sd	anything can go on in California.	b	well, yes,

b	Yeah.	sv	you just don't know,

aa^r	uh huh.	sd	it used to be just capital murder,

no	I really would have no idea. I don't really know.	sd	you know, because I have a feeling it is,

sv	that would be pretty lenient in my opinion.	aa	Yeah,

qy^c	are you there?	ny	Yes.

qy^t	Do you know the question for today?	ny	yes.

qy	Do you think this is vital important?	na	absolutely.

bh	Do you,	sv	I think that, it's kind of discouraging to,

sd	I don't know.	ba	Well, that's a thought.

qy	Well, can you come up with anything else that maybe we could do to these people?	no	I don't know

bd	that's all right.	sv	that I think probably one of the reasons that people don't vote more is because they don't know the candidates.

sv	the only thing is if they don't vote, they have no right to complain.	aa	Absolutely.

sv	and then if I'm unhappy with it, I have the right to express my opinion.	aa	That's right.

sd	But they have been little more effective in Oklahoma with having this program that you vote or you lose it.	qy	Now if you just skip one election?

sd^e	three.	b^m	Three.

sd	you have to skip three.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, of course, they can be, a long time apart	sv	I think that's an excellent idea because then people really have to think about it.

qo	and this is not one of our questions but what do you think of this no excuse absentee balloting?	^h	No excuse.

qy^d	I'm sure all over the State of Texas now you have three weeks to go for absentee balloting.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	Anyone can go and vote.	sv	I think that's great.

qy	Do you?	nd	Actually, you know, my husband has run for office before

sd	But that is an excuse I could live with.	b	Uh huh.

sv	If you're busy, that has always been a legitimate excuse. If you are incapacitated, ill health,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I don't know why we couldn't have duplicate voting on some of this.	sd	they do have to check them off a list when they vote

aa	I know.	sv	so hopefully they couldn't.

qo	So, how do you feel about capital punishment?	sd	Well, I'm not really certain how I, I'm not certain that it does a lot of good. I mean, that it ends up effectively, avoiding a lot of the crimes that have capital punishment penalties.

b	Right,	h	Yet, on the other hand, I don't know,

sv	and then other times, you don't know.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sv	and everybody knows exactly what for.

b	Right.	sv	you know, and here, with our court system and ways of sort of screwing it around and stuff you can kind of always count on the fact,

sv	so I think sometimes they'd prefer just to get it over with	b@	Uh huh. Yeah,

sv	so it's more of the easy way out than making them pay for the con , for the you know, what they've done.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, and it's , sort of a crass perspective on the usage of capital punishment,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but on the other hand, you know, I don't know if that is, that is that serious that they're really never going to be out of jail, ...

sd	but then again, also, you can't bring back lives that have been taken anyway,	b	Uh huh .

h	I don't know,	aa	I know,

aa	It doesn't bring back every,	b	Yeah,

qw	What state are you in?	sd	I'm in Texas.

qy	In Dallas?	nn	No,

bh	really?	qw	where are you calling from?

sd	but I'm from Plano, Texas.	bk	I see,

qw	So, what are the laws like in Texas?	sd	I guess there is more and more states that are going back to capital punishment.

bh	really?	sd	They by, do it by lethal injection.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm originally from Kansas

ba	Wow.	sd	I still remember the, the movie, IN COLD BLOOD.

nn	no.	b	Yeah.

qy	And they do it that way?	ny	Yeah,

b	Huh.	sd	and so it's not particularly graphic,

sd	I'm not really familiar.	bh	Is that right?

sd^e	I am.	b	Yeah.

sd	and one of them has the real gun in it.	b	Uh huh,

sd	So they don't know who killed,	qy^d	Has a real bullets

na	Right.	b	Yeah,

aa	no.	sd	I've always said that if I had to kill and clean and do my own meat, I think I'd become a vegetarian.

qo	how do you like it?	nd	Well, I don't do much of it here.

qw	what kind do you have? .	sd	roaches and,

bh	Do they really?	ny	yes.

bk	Oh.	sd	Just awful.

sd	and they never mentioned that problem .	bh	you're kidding.

sv	They probably just take it for granted then.	aa	It must be.

ba	yuck .	sd	Me, personally can't,

sd(^q)	we kind of have an understanding that, I said I'll do inside work you do outside work.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And so I get into the gardening part of it, the fun part, like putting in the annuals and things like that.	b	Uh huh .

sd	But I don't like it dirty .	aa	No .

sd	Today we just had a lot of rain .	bh	really?

qw^d	I don't know how yours has been.	sd	Well, it's been real hot here lately.

sd	this is going to be a switch for us for a week going down there,	b	Yeah.

sd	But, as far as the gardening and things like that goes I don't know, too much about, how much I really do enjoy it myself.	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you like it at all?	ng	well, not here.

qo	Well, how about when you were in Colorado?	sd	Well, I liked it a little bit

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so that I think really, hampered it a little bit.

ad	And, if you have that on a regular basis in Texas, I think I would go with something very dry to keep it off, you know.	aa	Yeah.

qy^d	and with children, you probably don't have time anyhow to get into it.	nn	No.

fc	Right.	fc	nice talking to you.

fc^m	Nice talking with you.	fc	Okay,

^h	let's see,	qw	How old are you Lisa?

sd	I'm twenty.	bk	Okay.

qw	How old are you?	sd	I'm older.

b^m	Older .	sd	Older than you are.

bk	Okay.	b^m	Okay,

sd	but I'm from Plano, Texas.	b^m	you are from Plano.

bh	really?	ny	Yes,

ba	wow.	b	Yeah,

sd@	My dad used to work at U T D also. generally we just go on family vacations to Arizona.	qw	Anyway, so, where's your favorite place to go?

sd	That's generally our usual summer vacation.	qw	Where in Arizona?

sd	Tempe.	bk	Okay,

sd	so we go swimming	qy	Pretty hot isn't it, in the summer?

sd	They're up there also, my grandparents and my cousins.	ba	That's good.

qy	have you?	ny	Yes,

ba	my goodness.	b	Yes.

qy	Around Christmas time?	nn	no,

bk	Oh.	sd	We're going to go in March after my children's birthdays and get all that business out of the way.

ba	Wow.	b	Yeah,

bh	really?	sd	It was the coldest it's been there ever in January ,

qy	So, do you travel a lot	sd	But, I would like to go to Tempe.

bk	Oh.	sd	I mean, I have been up until just a few months ago.

qy^g	So you know a lot of good vacation spots,	na	I know a lot of good places to go.

qy	That's your favorite?	ny	Yes,

qw	where do you live?	sd	I live in Yakima, Washington.

ba	Wow.	sd	So it's cold and rainy today.

na	I do.	qy	Do you use NuSkin skin care.

nd	I work for NuSkin .	bh	Do you?

ny	Yes.	sd	I'm a NuSkin person.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

ba	my goodness.	sd	but I'm my best customer.

ba	Great .	qy	Since we're not supposed to talk about this, though, is there anything more intensive for the eye area than the eye cream?

sd	maybe the rejuvenating cream is the only other thing I would use.	sd	I have that, too.

qy	Than the intensive eye?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	NuSkin is wonderful.

aa	yes.	sv	I think it's a wonderful product.

sd^e	we get free products every month	ba	my gosh.

sd	now I'm getting about sixty bucks a month, free products	b	Yeah,

sd	I've worked there about a year.	ba	That's good.

sd^e	they're wonderful to work for.	ba	That's great.

b	Yep .	ad^t	Anyway, so we're supposed to be talking about places to go

qy	Uh huh.	qy	Do you ski?

ny	I ski, yes.	qy^d	you probably ski very well in Utah.

sd	Actually since I grew up in Texas I've only been here about two years and have gone skiing about well, five times each season.	qw	Why did you move to Utah?

ny	Yeah,	qy	is that where B Y U is?

ny	Yep.	bk	Okay,

sd	I do like to ski.	qy^g	pretty down there.

sd^e	I said I do like to ski.	qw	So, where, have you skied?

sd	And it's kind of nice being up here just because it's all like a vacation in itself when you get to go.	b	Sure.

sd	If you like that kind of thing .	b	Sure,

sd	I am actually a junior. Beginning of my junior year.	b	You're a junior.

sd	Nursing.	ba	Good for you.

aa	I know.	ad	don't be in any hurry.

aa	I'm not.	ad	You really should go to Europe.

qy	And it was great?	sd	I traveled with a group of sixteen other students.

qw	How long did you get to stay there?	sd	six weeks.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

qy	did you grow up in the farm.	nd	well, at that time I was in a, Trenton , New Jersey

bk@	I see, well little bit different.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think though it was much slower and, much more self contained.	aa	I think you're right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I'm comparing my life when I was in high school thirty years ago to what I see these children doing.

b	Yes.	sd	And the pressures on the children, you know,

sv	unreal by comparison.	sd	I cannot believe, what they're doing, academically the demands on them

sd	I can remember as a child, you know, nobody ever worried about me wondering out at night and going where I wanted to go.	b	Uh huh,

sd	it didn't occur to nobody to worry that anything would happen to me	sd	And you didn't, you didn't have to lock your door.

aa^r	no.	sd	some of these are urban worries

qh	It's not all that long ago is it .	b	yeah, to

b^r	uh huh.	sd	the first rights we've been having some problem now

sd	we were living in New Jersey. twenty years ago.	b	Uh huh.

sd	In Allendale .	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I use to have to go over to Patterson when those riots were going on, sometimes.	b	Uh huh.

sv	though the news media had those riots, kind of blown up out of proportion.	b	Uh huh,

sd	because I went there many times	sd	the Washington riots weren't,

sd@	I never saw a riot. Did you?	sd^r	The Washington riots weren't

b	Uh huh.	sv	the kinds of diseases that you've got out the,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean the consequences is

sv	I think the other thing is that, we have taken some rather drastic turns in our education and the way we approach things as of maybe starting back when I'm number one, you know, and, worrying about self and not, seeing the consequences of the disintegration of the family.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	and there have been many things that have happened that have not encouraged closeness of families and, support for young people the kind of support that they need, to help them take care of the things,	aa	Yes,

sv	if you don't have some kind of basic believe or something down inside of you, then it's very difficult to, have anything to turn to, when you've got something facing you like that.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, they're constantly, excusing their, child

b	Right.	sv	and you can see exactly, why the child is that way.

aa	exactly.	sv	You as a teacher, can't hold a child accountable, if you're not going to get reinforced by, that at home.

aa^r	that's right.	sv	And you can't make up in a classroom of one hour a day, what's not been done for, fifteen or sixteen years at home,

b	Oh.	sv	and you get mixed signals

sd	I see some flickers of, of good directions turning,	b	No .

sv	but whether they're soon enough and fast enough I don't know,	sv	Of course, life is a lot more complicated too in ways,

b	Right.	sv	you know, with farming being so mechanized, people working on the family farm which was a traditional American way that becomes less and less likely,

b	Uh huh.	sv	factory jobs are so much more, sophisticated.

aa	that's right.	sv	it's requiring an increasingly sophisticated labor force

sv	And there's so, so many people on the lower end of those who are going to be the drop outs and the, and the poor and the homeless and whatnot,	sv	And you worry when, you know the sex and drugs on the young children and the unborn children,

aa	Yeah,	sv	in terms of what it's going to mean to a society, in the future it's a

b	Yeah.	sv	some ways it's rather frightening,

sv	it just is almost overwhelming sometimes when you think, of the jobs that is out there to be done, in order to flip things back around the way they needed to be,	aa	It certainly is.

sd	not that I really think that they were perfect ten, twenty, or thirty years ago,	qy^g	It was a little easier though wasn't it?

sv^e	just the volume makes a big difference,	b	Yes.

sv	it's just the volume of it, to try to keep all wash done and all the things done you know, and everything.	o@	Yeah. And all the things demanded of the mother too I mean,

b	Right.	sd	I look at my mother's life

sv	Right and, and children's lives were simpler because mother was there,	sd	and I sit here,

sv	somebody was there.	aa	That's right.

sv	and when there's nobody there,	aa	That's right,

sv	but I believed after having a few teenagers that the worst time you could go, to go work was when they were teenagers.	sv	They need you more as a teenager .

sv	but it's that you are there when they need you.	aa	that's so true,

b	Yeah.	sd	I find working in a high school is very helpful because it let's me be a little more tolerant and understanding of what people do,

b	Yeah.	sd	and it keeps me from being the old fogy

aa	I think that's true.	sv	but that's the same

b	Yeah,	sd	I'm home at three o clock when the children are at home

b	Yeah.	sd	one is now a senior in high school and the other's in college,

qy^d	But that helps a lot,	na	it, it does,

sd	and he opted to go into a day care center where she could have her children with her. and looked a long time before she found one that was laid back enough so she would be able to interact with them,	b	Uh huh,

sv	I don't think people realize how important it is.	aa	that is, that is so true,

b	Yeah,	sv	and it's not that the children always say something

b	Yeah.	sv	and you realize it's important that,

bk^m	Linda.	b	Uh huh.

bk	Okay.	qw^d	And your name was?

fc^t	Well I think probably that we've just about .	fc	Well I enjoyed, talking with you.

fc	I'm going to, change the world	fc^r	Well, I enjoyed talking with you.

fc	it's nice talking to you, too.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye now.	fc	Bye bye.

qw	music do you like?	sd	lots of different kinds I guess.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Texas

sd	I am more into rock and roll myself.	b	Uh huh.

b@	Uh huh. Uh huh.	sd	you know, they have that type of music,

qy	Do you like any bluegrass?	nn	no.

bk	Oh.	sd	And I like I like rap music.

ng	Not really .	b^m	Not really .

b	Yeah.	b	Okay.

sd	I have a lot of friends that like country music .	qw	What kind of rock music do you listen to?

sd^e	I'm more into, older rock, like the psychedelic era, like,	qy^d	Seventies and like that stuff.

nd	late sixties, seventies,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Greatful Dead, Crosby, Stills and Nash.	b	Yeah,

bh	What ?	b	Yeah .

nd	I've heard a little bit of it.	qy	Like have you heard of Carmen?

sd	now I've heard of Striper.	b	Striper,

sv	the first of Amy Grant before	b	Yeah.

sv	you know, became more mainstream, top forty.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	I imagine that she puts on a pretty good show.	na	She does.

b	Uh huh.	sv	She's real good.

sd	I like some country music.	sd(^q)	I don't like the country music that's like my wife left me, my dog left me, everybody's left me.

^q	Mama got run over by the train.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, I like Randy Travis

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, I like more of the real new ones, you know.

qy^d	Like Garth Brooks.	^h	Garth Brooks,

qy^d	Reba MacIntyre.	ny	Yeah.

qy^r	You don't like Patsy Cline.	nn	No,

sd^e	actually I just went to see the Greatful Dead I guess about a week ago.	qy	But aren't they done with?

sd	They have been touring, since the late sixties .	sd	And I just thought that they done broke up and left.

sd	They're still making albums.	ba	Wow,

b	Uh huh.	ba	That's interesting.

sd	In fact, I mean there are people you know that basically just follow them around, from city to city on tour selling tie dye and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but you know like whenever one of them dies off they get a replacement .	bk	Okay.

sd	and the new ones in this thirties you know.	b	alright.

sv	but it looked like leather day at the geriatric,	aa	Yeah,

sv	All their faces were just all shriveled,	aa	Uh huh.

sv	I mean it just just looked like they, got a bunch of retirees and put them in leather jackets and blue jeans.	aa	Uh huh.

ng	Actually, I prefer my performers to be pretty sober, you know, just so you know, that if they're jamming, you know, that they don't just lose themselves and you know, go into lala land.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I just don't like you know.

b	Uh huh.	h	So, I don't know .

sd	So I really don't have a problem with it.	b	Yeah. {F Uh,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, and the advertisements on television lately have been so,

b	Yeah.	sd	like tr , train wrecks and things like that

sv	I honestly feel if people have nothing to hide, they shouldn't have a problem with it.	b	Right.

sd	Not only with themselves, but with other employees.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they're talking about sports and sports personalities and all this stuff that I would much prefer having doctors and airline pilots tested on a random basis.	b	Yeah.

sd	So I really have no problem with it.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they feel that's not fair and whatever,

aa	Yes.	sd	I've had a lot of dental work done,

bh	really?	ny	yeah.

sd	if I were a dentist, I'd want to be protected, too.	sv	Well, you would think so.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I worked for a dentist

b	Uh huh.	sv	I would think,

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know.

sd	Well, where you're located, I do know Texas Instruments has random drug testing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm pushing our company towards that. .	sv	Well, and, you know, if they do find someone who is, having a problem with drugs

aa	Exactly.	sv	because a lot of people, seems like, obviously are trying to hide that from their employer and friends and family and things

b	Uh huh.	sv	and too many people are just dying. Particularly in our area.

b	Right.	qw^d	I don't know what the crime is like where you are,

sv	It's too free.	aa	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I got a piece of paper from my husband's office,

bh	Really?	sd	it looks like a sticker

qo	So, how do you feel about the crime in your city?	sd	Well, Minneapolis isn't too bad.

b	Uh huh.	sd	that's kind of gone up in scale and some other things.

b	really.	sd	But, actually, you know, when you look at Minneapolis as compared to where I used to live, it's really quite a bit better. because I came from Florida

b	Uh huh.	sd	and in Orlando, crime is getting to be a bigger problem than ever,

b	yeah.	qw	What part of California are you from?

sd	San Jose, California.	bh	really?

sd	Here, you know, the real problems are the gangs.	b	Yeah .

sd	but in comparison to Colorado, it's real noticeable.	aa	yeah.

sd	I mean I won't go to the grocery store at night.	aa	Yeah.

sd	And it's that kind of thing	sv	That's really a shame when it has to constrain your activities like,

sd	We have a neighborhood watch program in the development that we live in, which I think is a great way to reduce, home theft, burglary, and things of that sort.	b	Sure.

qy	Do you have that where you live	sd	Well, interestingly enough, right before I moved up here,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but in Orlando, before I moved up, we had a real problem with it.

ba	no.	sd	And one of the things that I helped organize was a neighborhood watch type situation down there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's one of those things where the new thing is that they operate in the daylight because everybody went to work, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then the houses were left unguarded,

sd	Well, you know, also I've heard that, the newest thing is a lot of people are specializing in robbing people during the time they're home. Like on the weekends.	bh	is that right?

sd	I think it's like fifty percent of most people's free time is, spent doing yard work outdoors.	b	Oh.

sv	and then they just slip in. Slip in, slip out, you know.	ba	That's amazing.

sv	They know exactly what they're going for.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I've heard that's really on the rise as far as you know, a new type of crime.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah .	b	Really, you know.

aa	Unfortunately, yes.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	Like one of the guys I work with really laughs when he looks at Minneapolis because he's from Detroit

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, the crime level there, of course, is quite a bit, more pronounced,

b	Uh huh.	b	but, yeah.

qy	is that what you did in your program? Where you have a list of license plates?	na	Pretty much.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then I left right in the middle of it.

b	Yeah. Well.	b^m	Yeah,

sv	You can have the house alarm, neighborhood watch program, you know, as a woman not go out at night	b	Yeah.

sv	you can do that which is what I choose to do.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	even if you know that the threat is there it's against the law to set traps,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's against the law to do a lot of things, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they did in Miami that time.

sv	if you kill someone in your home, as long as they are in your home, it's considered self defense though.	ar	That's not always true.

bh	It isn't?	nn	No.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and essentially what he had done is set a elec , a electrocution trap for the burglar in his own home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	The guy came in while he was home

bh	Really.	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's like your hands are very much tied.

sd	mostly it's been because I didn't like the color,	b	Uh huh.

sd	or, I'm not sure whether I've had to return that many things,	sd	Well, I'm having a problem right now with a computer that we've just returned.

bh	are you?	sd	So, for me it's actually a pretty good topic.

ad	so, we'll talk about that some.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but for the last four or five years I've had eye problem,	b	Oh.

sd	Shopping is no fun anymore .	ba	I can imagine.

sd	and it's just aggrav ,	qy^d	You can't read labels

sd	I just thought of something we have to return .	ba	Good.

qy	okay? .	na^m	Okay.

qy^t	Are you ready?	ny	Yeah.

b	Laurie, all right .	b	Right.

sv	I think that sounds fascinating.	sd	Well, we bought a computer because my husband needed to use it to do some work for a consulting project,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we called up the company that somebody else we knew had dealt with,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so we went there,

b	yes.	sd	And it's called a user boards

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he told us there's sorry, two six , four sixteen bit slots and two eight bit slots available for the user,

ba	lovely.	sd	And at this point we only have one board

qy^d	the computer was supposed to have two.	nd	Well, it has them

b	I see.	sd	they told us there would be no problem because, you know, the salesman just doesn't really know.

sv	They probably didn't know what they were talking about.	aa	Right.

b	Right.	sd	So, we went back in,

b	Uh huh .	sd	And, he goes and gets it, brings it home,

ba	jeez .	sd	And see now we're dealing with having to bring it back again

aa	it really is.	sv	you know, it's just this problem with sales people just not knowing what goes on.

sv	and so much time goes past before you finally get any kind of satisfaction.	b	Right.

sv	I think that's the worst part.	sd	So, well, actually some things are pretty good with that because I put it on a gold credit card

qy^g	Now that's an advantage, isn't it?	ny	Yes.

sv	It, how , it gets you some muscle where you need it.	b	Yeah.

sv	And I think that's really important.	sd(^q)	Well, because these guys if they, give us a hard time we're going to say, you, look, you know,

aa^r	That's right.	sd	I just tell the credit card company, don't pay the charge, even though they've already paid it.

aa	No .	sd	But they'll just, you know, undo the credit that they did to them.

aa	They will,	b	Yeah.

sv	they will put the kind of clout on them that you can't really do.	b	Right.

sd	but to keep her entertained, music and some of these things do help.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I thought well, if I had, a nice little, tape recorder, you know, so that I could put some good music on in there for her every once in a while. And then also so that I, I do some musicals and things like this and if I can copy sections off that I can use someplace I figured well this will be good.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the next thing I knew the tape was chewed up in the, thing.	ba	no.

sd	so after that then , you couldn't get a tape to play at the right speed in that side.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so you can't get it to run the right way, either,	b	Uh huh.

ng	I really don't know which brand it is.	sd	But I was wondering like, you know

b	Yeah.	qy^d	and I was wondering if you,

sd	and we're going to just take it back	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	just, one of the major, I think it was a, you know, I don't, I think it was, you know, like a Highlands or something like this.	b^m	Highlands ,

qy	Do they have Highlands up there?	nn	Nope.

sd	Well, this is was a regular, electronics store, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think they deliberately sometimes,	sv	I think a lot of things are not made as well.

qw	what, for instance, what are you,	sd	of course, it's hard to think of an exact example,

ba	That's good	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	for one thing. I know their, work, you know,

aa	I think that's right.	sv	they want people to replace it after, a couple of years.

sd	I've known people who have had Toyotas for years that have had almost no repair work to do on them.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but they don't have to take them to the shop every other day.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	My Toyota did, really well.

sv	so, part of it is that we need to develop more of a pride in, the kinds of things we do so we make them better.	ba	Good.

sv	And it kind of has to start from the top and go clea , or from the bottom maybe and go clear up.	sv	Well, I think part of the problem comes in sort of shoddy workmanship.

b	Yeah.	sv	nobody cares, nobody's, really paying,

sv(^q)	Attitude is just get me my dollar so I can go do what I want to do, and, on,	aa	Right,

sv	There isn't, any way to get paid enough.	b	Yeah.

sv	so whatever you're paid is enough.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you get satisfaction out of it.

aa	That's right,	sv	And, But you know, I think things come both from the, individual side and also from the company side

sv@	is. Yeah.	sv	because the companies that, give the attitude that, well, you know,

b	Yeah.	^q	and we don't really care about you, as an individual.

b	Yeah.	sv	When you've got that type of attitude on it, the people don't care, about their work.

sv	and so you need to really work hard at helping your kids to understand that there is value just in work for itself without any pay, you know.	sv	Little value just in whatever you do.

sv	The, the, the that the value is in doing it well	sv	Doing a good job of it.

qw	Jay, where do you live in Texas?	sd	I live in Dallas,

b^m	In Dallas.	sd	right at the intersection of the busiest highway in the state. And a, uh, it goes east and west, and a north south tollway.

qy	What's that, the I Thirty and Central express?	nn	no,

bk	Okay,	sd	It's the looper that goes around the city

b	Right.	sd	and then, the tollway is called the Dallas North Tollway.

b	Yeah.	sd	Just moved here about a month ago after twenty one years, two miles to the east.

bh	how about that?	sd	So, it's a very different house from the typical Dallas, house.

qy	It's a new home?	no	It's about eight years old,

b^m	About eight years.	sd	it's a duplex type thing. very modern and, very open and airy light.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it's different than the long Texas ramblers.

b	uh huh.	b^m	Uh huh.

sd	Well we we live in a brick story and a half,	qw	What's your house like?

sd	Cape Cod style, I guess you'd call it.	ba	great,

sd	And, have a big sun room on the back of it.	qy	So it's got a lot of openness and light, also?

nn	No,	qy	it doesn't?

ng	it doesn't have .	sd	Well, that's what my wife really wanted

qy	With openness and light?	ny	Yeah

sd	I would love that too .	sd	our last house wasn't too bad,

sd	this is very traditional.	sd	the next time, probably a year and a half from now, we're going to try to build.

b	uh huh.	sd	So make one really, contemporary and, and very modern and very open and very light.

qy	Do you have children at home?	nn	No,

ba	boy.	sd	they usually, get back at least two of them for the summer,

qy^d	You still need space, plenty of space .	na	Still need a little bit of space.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Already cut back.

b	Uh huh.	qw	How big is your place?

sd	It's, about twenty five hundred square feet, I guess.	ba	 that's good size.

sd	It's four bedrooms and two baths and that,	b	Yeah.

sd	It has one wing built on that's a kitchen family room, and then the big room on the back.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So now we're down to, two and two.

b	uh huh.	b^m	Uh huh.

qy	I was just reading an article, that there were nineteen thousand properties available in Texas, for sale by the Resolution Trust Corporation?	ny	yes.

sd	Repossessed .	ny	Yes,

sd	I, I guess so.	sd	we really didn't go that route and didn't look.

sv	That's discouraging if you own property .	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But that was just the timing.

sd	Well our daughter and son in law moved back up here. He's from Texas, but course she's from here, about a year and a half ago, and had their house on the market down there,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she got her job back, and he got a job down there.	b	Oh.

nn	Huh uh.	ba	For sure.

nn	Nope.	sv	And that's a good, example of it.

sd	They live in Rowlett.	b	yeah.

bh	Have you?	sd	I'm from Missouri,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it's sort of home now.

qw	What college are you teaching at?	sd	I'm at, it's called Brookhaven College.

bk	Oh.	sd	And it's just about two miles to the west of where I'm living.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it's very nice, very convenient.

sd	The only one I know is Richardson .	b	Yeah.

b	uh huh.	sd	And that's about nine miles to the east of here.

b	Yeah.	fc	So, anyway, well, it's good to hear from you.

fc	Well I enjoyed talking to you.	fc	And I hope we, good, on their little computer dealy.

b	Right.	fc	And, have a good life, the rest of it.

fc	same to you.	fc	Bye bye.

qy	Well, Steve, did you go to college?	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	So you probably could give some great advice.	nd	well, I don't know about that,

qw	Well, what's your interest,	sd	well, computer science and cognitive science.

sd	I'm in a P H D program right now.	b	I see.

sd	But my area of expertise is, human computer interaction.	b	yeah.

sd	And I think that's one reason why I'm part of this study, because I'm working with voice systems.	b	Yeah.

qw	what, what type of advice do you think you'd give to a parent?	qy^h	To a parent?

ny	Yeah.	sv	Well, you know, the thing is, when you're a kid and the kid at that age, especially if they're going into undergraduate, it seems like they think they know what they want.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	and, I mean, choosing from my experience, you know, I thought, you know, I know what I want a lot more than my parents know what I want.

b	Uh huh.	h	But, I don't know,

sv	I think that's more important probably than even the career vocation, because most people change.	b	Yeah.

sv	but some of the small, some of the larger small schools, you know, I guess around three or four thousand students can offer a broader range of curriculums and things,	b	Yeah.

sv	I don't know, they don't have to give up years you know, of credit transfer and things.	aa	Yeah.

sv	I think most employers would probably rather hire, you know, a three six in history, to be a salesman than someone with a two oh in business administration.	b	yeah.

qy	Does that make sense?	ny	Yeah.

sv	I always, you know, tell them that you should major in something you're going to get good grades in. Because that's always, I think, more important, you know, overall.	b	Yeah.

h	I don't know.	t3	give me five minutes.

qy	you're at the office now?	ny	Yeah.

qy	At work?	qy^m	Yeah.

na	I would, it would,	qw	you know, what's the trade off there,

sd	and then right now I'm teaching part time at a Catholic institution.	bk	I see.

sv	but I think you can also get a bad education at public or private, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	I think the bad part is that most parents or kids don't know what to look for.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, a particular institution might be better for my area

b	Uh huh.	sv	yet, like, say, you know, the University of Small Town in Arkansas or something, might have some top specialists in my area.

b	Right.	sv	Yet, if I go to U of I or C M U or, you know, you know, any big name school, my quality of education might not be that much better,

qh	does it have a big ten football team	aa	Yeah,

qh	is it a PAC ten school, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	that's the big one with the football team.	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, when I first was applying for graduate schools, I applied to some big programs, you know, in this area, like Stevens Institute of Technology, which is recognized in the Northeast as, you know, one step below M I T in a sense, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	so it's got big name recognition in this area, a big science school, no football team, but a big science school,	b	Yeah.

sd	so most people recognized that institution because it was a teaching school sort of,	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	you know, but then when I went, for graduate work, you know, or for a new job, people said to me, you know, Shippensburg State, where is that, you know .	b	Yeah,

sd	And, you know, when I went into higher education, even at other universities, they weren't aware of it, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	you need that first, job or so out of school, too.	b	Yeah.

aa	yeah.	sd	And, actually, in the Midwest especially, a lot of the schools like University of Missouri, will have a main campus like Columbia, which is big, multi disciplinary,

b	Right.	sd	and they'll have a satellite campus usually in a smaller town that specializes in the technical field.

aa	Yeah,	b^m	Yeah.

o	Okay	b^m	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well, I don't do it as much as I should.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, last year I did it every day,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so I'm not doing it as much as I need to,

aa	I agree .	sd	But it's just to get motivated to do it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's just to get, motivated again,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I was by myself,

b	Right.	sd	I haven't walked since,

ba	I know what you mean.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and I went through the T I fitness center and registered for the, aerobics classes there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so that was four and a half hours a week.	bk	Oh.

^q	that'll encourage me to always go since I spent that much money.	b	Right.

sd	and then I was having to work some real late hours to get caught with my work after I got out of class.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, boy, I tell you what, I've been terrible ever since then.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because I teach school,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I would go faithfully,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you just have to stick with it.

sd	and some of them require me to go out of town,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, that just kind of throws my whole schedule off on doing that.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I've found excuses, things like I had the flu last week,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I didn't.	b	Yeah.

sd	and so I haven't had that extra motivation, of us forcing each other, or not forcing each other but encouraging each other to go.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Like it's misery loves company.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, it's an automatic high for her.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She just enjoys it so much.

sd	I'm the same way.	sd	I feel good after I do it,

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, I just,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it's a daily thing for her.

sd	I do too.	sd	and I have an older sister that loves running, too,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Like when I walk I'll take along a radio or something

sd	There's a real nice residential area right behind our apartment complex.	b	Uh huh,

sv	And it's not as boring if you get several people	aa	That's right.

sv	it's a lot more fun than some other things I could do, I guess.	b	Yeah,

sd	and after I get finished I feel great.	sv	it's great afterwards,

sd	it's amazing how much better I feel.	b	Yeah.

sd	And then just in general, I sleep a lot better	b	Yeah,

sd	and I know if I would just get around to exercising I'd feel better.	aa	Exactly

sd	But my dragginess is my excuse for not exercising.	b	Yeah.

^q	so I better not go .	qy^g	It's kind of a vicious circle isn't it?

sd^e	it really is.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	So, you know, you know, you're not only doing something to keep yourself fit, but you're probably prolonging your life.

b	Right.	sv	There's no reason that we shouldn't do it,

sd	I don't really feel like going in the grocery store all sweaty or running errands.	b	Yeah.

sd	So I think a Tuesday Thursday might be a little bit better.	b	Yeah.

sd	Of course, I feel like once I've done it, if I'm sweaty I might as well do an extra thirty minutes , because you've already kind of shot your night.	b	Right.

sd	But, so I'm kind of glad they have a longer class on Thursday now that I can just kill two nights, and and, get a reasonable amount of workout in.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	it's less expensive.	ba	Well, that's good, too.

sd	But I'm glad it's not too totally cheap, because if it was too cheap I would talk myself out of going more, probably.	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)	Since it's more expensive, I think, Okay, you spent that much money, you'd better go .	aa	That's right,

sd	So hopefully.	qy@	Well, do you have a facility right where you work? No.

sv	But, I guess, sometimes it kind of motivates you to really get going.	b	Yeah,

ny	Uh huh.	ba	that's great.

sd	I think if I had to come home and then go somewhere, I'd never make it.	b	Yeah.

sd	And just the fact that I can go straight from my desk over to the recreation center and do it helps a lot.	aa	Uh huh.

b	yeah .	qy	Well, do a lot of people take advantage of it?

sd	For me, I wouldn't have time to do an hour of aerobics and then take a shower and get dressed again.	b	yeah.

sd	But there's a lot more guys that do that one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've never done that one before.	qy	you have a pool there, too?

ny	Uh huh.	ba	how nice.

sd	They've got the full weight room and, the locker rooms with, a jacuzzi and sauna and the shower facilities, and hair dryers, and you know, everything you'd need just about.	ba	Wow.

sd	But it is very nice.	ba	That's great.

sd	I mean, I'm just now finally starting to do the aerobics thing.	qy	Well, does it cost money like to exercise in the weight room or to tak , to go swimming.

sd	and it's about eight dollars a month.	ba	that's not bad.

aa	not at all .	b	Huh uh.

sd	but, I think the aerobics classes are even pretty reasonably priced, from what I've heard.	aa	I think so too,

br	Hm?	qy^r	People of all ages take advantage of the aerobics?

qw	So, what was the last car repair you had?	sd^t	Just recently I was kind of laughing when I heard the switchboard talking about the question because, I had to have my, radiator flushed

bk	Oh.	sd	and it was getting rusty.

qy	Did you crack the block or what?	nn	No,

sv	You got lucky you didn't ruin the whole engine though.	aa	Yes,

sv	That can be pretty serious.	aa	I know.

sd	it's been about a year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I had the water pump break on my car.	bk	Oh.

sd	I was going on my way home from Thanksgiving	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it broke like in the middle of nowhere.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I had to get it towed and then fixed	b	Uh huh.

sv	big pain.	aa	I know.

sd	Luckily someone came by and gave me a ride.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah .	sd	your car is fuming

sd	so is mine .	b	Yeah,

sd	So when I cross that one I'll be okay.	b	Uh huh,

ba	that's nice .	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	because I don't know if I want to, you know, pay all these repairs now to start getting it fixed when it's starting to breakdown.

sv	and it's not worth it .	aa	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	h	So I don't know,

^q	It's not worth it.	aa	Uh huh.

ny	Yeah.	b	Uh huh .

sd^e	we get some killer winters up here in the mountains.	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	bk	okay.

sv	Lot of snow and a lot of cold.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	at times there's a lot of it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You got to like clean out the underneath of your car all the time when you get a chance.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	I haven't had a big problem with that though.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I've been pretty lucky there.	sd	Well, I think they get the new Z bart stuff and everything to where you can,

sd	You just rinse it off after the winter is over and done with it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I usually like to do most repairs on my own though.	bh	Do you?

sd^e	just because that way I know what's wrong with my car and what it needs and what it really doesn't.	b	Uh huh,

sd	Plus if something goes wrong, I know who to blame.	sd	Well, I think I'm getting too old for all that.

bf	More fun things to do.	aa	Absolutely, absolutely.

ba	Well, that's nice.	aa	And yeah,

b	Yeah.	b^m	And yeah,

sv	One is bad enough .	aa	Yes,

fc^t	I was just wondering that .	fc^t	I didn't, I didn't set the time or anything to,

fc^t	I didn't either.	fc	Yeah,

fc	this must be a hard category.	fc	Well, yeah,

ad	Why don't you go ahead and start.	aa	Okay.

qy	So you think if trials were held by judges or experts, that they would tend not to convict people on circumstantial evidence?	na	I think so.

sd	and, that's the sort of system they have.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They're experts in the law	b	Right.

sd	The judges do the questioning	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think I prefer the jury system myself.	qy	You think you prefer the jury?

sv	That's where you really need a jury of peers. Because, anytime the government, is the government against the individual y , you need the protection of ordinary citizens.	aa	Well, that's true.

sv	I guess I don't think that, juries need to decide sentencing all the time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think maybe a judge is a better judge of that	sv	Well, sometimes the sentencing is not fair.

sv	That's usually a matter of who to believe and what facts to believe.	b	Right.

sv	But people who don't have day in and day out life long experience with what prison is really like and what the options are, to ask them to decide for one case, on one person, based on what they see, I think that is maybe, a little bit naive.	b	Yeah.

sv	In Texas here, people tend to get whipped up into a frenzy and slap long sentences on people.	b	Uh huh .

sv	it's kind of, a hanging jury atmosphere .	b	Right.

sd	some cases in some jurisdictions, they can do that.	bh	really?

sd	I kind of like that system.	b^m	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	But, the thing is too, maybe they need I don't know, more of a expert types to be on some of these jury cases because most time you just pick, you know, Joe Blow or whoever and a good citizen or whoever and call them in.

sv	And lawyers blow sand in their eyes.	aa	exactly.

sd	I would like to see most civil cases tried before a panel of experts instead of ordinary juries.	aa	Right,

sd	Insurance cases and things like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, there would be more honest settlements instead of this, tugging of people's heart strings and, making them cry and feel like they're doing somebody good by giving them or giving them two million dollars to make up for the pain and suffering .	o@	Uh huh. putting on a act or whatever. / * slash error should be ^2

qy	well, do you have a pet?	na	I have two cats. and, and two fish.

sd	Your two fish.	qw	And what do you have?

sv	you know, how, sometimes when you marry someone that you get along on everything except one major thing.	b	no.

sd	So we have a black Labrador.	bk	Ooh.

sd	but to me, he belongs up in the field, you know, in the ranch, in the farm	o@	Right. Does he sleep in your house?

sd	and there's nothing you could say bad about him, except that I was more of a cat or a small dog person that you could sit in the chair and cuddle.	b	Right.

sd	but he does.	b	Yeah,

sd	And the worst part that I had with him, he's three now was when he was, about eight months old	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he had ripped my wallpaper off my wall.	ba	my word.

sd(^q)	And so, he said, well, puppies just chew when they're nervous and well, I wish you had told me you know,	ba	dear.

sd	and he looked at me like, you know	^2	Good bye .

sd	and I'm very comfortable,	sd	I love my cats.

b	Yeah.	sd	I had one cat for eighteen years.

b	Oh.	sd	Before I even got married I had my cat.

qy^d	She's old.	sd	Well, I had to have her put to sleep last June.

qy^d	then you broke your heart.	na	it was awful,

bk	Oh.	sd	and she just sat there on my lap, you know.

bk	Oh.	sd	She just waited

ba	Bless your heart.	sd	it was awful.

sd	That makes me feel so bad.	sd	but the bad thing was, though, she would pee in my husband's shoes.

ba	no .	sd	You know, and she just liked his shoes

ba	no .	sd	it was just bad.

sv	I never heard of that before.	sd	it was terrible.

b	Uh huh.	sv	She must have known he didn't like her or something.

sv	Or the smell or something.	sd	and I would bar the closet doors, and would vac , clean the carpets

bd	Uh huh.	sv	dear, it was just awful.

qy	Well, now, does your cat sleep in the house?	sd	That was very funny.

qy^d	they are house cats.	sd	well, I have two cats right now.

ba	good.	na	They sleep with my kids.

sv	See, it doesn't do anything.	sd	no, I I'm not going to have a dog.

b	See.	sd	We've had two dogs

b	Yeah.	sd	were just my kids' friends,

ba	no.	sd	It was awful.

aa	that is.	sd	And it's too heartbreaking

sd	Well, I'm not either.	b	Ooh.

sd	I'm not either	sd	I wouldn't want a Lab.

sd	And then my daughters both have hamsters.	b	Oh.

sd	and I gave in at Christmas	b	yeah.

sd	and they just sleep and eat bits of apple and carrots and,	b	Sure.

sd^t	I think they're cutting us off.	ar	No,

b	Oh.	sd	somebody's trying to cut in on my line

b	okay.	sd	I'll just wait.

b	Okay.	b	No,

b	okay.	sd	I hate to cut it off,

ba	I understand.	ad	so we'll just wait.

aa	Okay,	sv	Whoever it is will call back.

sd^t	they'll cut us off pretty soon.	sd	Well, it's somebody calling for my kids, you know,

aa	I know.	sd	Actually, it's my son,

qy^d	Salt water or,	nn	No

b	Yeah.	sd^e	just regular water.

qy	Do you have annual family reunions	ny	yeah,

qy	Were they like all in Dallas?	nn	no not, no,

bk	Oh.	sd	it was around there generally.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	that's where the family grew.

qy^d	Just from city to city then .	ny	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	so. it was a big deal,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	We rent a pavilion and do that

qy	Do you go back?	ng	I have not gone back lately.

qr	Is it choice or just business	qy^d^h	Not getting to go.

ny	Uh huh.	sd	just, the distance involved

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I have a younger daughter now

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I am going to, hopefully next year get to go back, cause, a lot of the family on her side, my mother's side, has not seen, you know, my daughter,

qy	Do you have brothers and sisters?	sd	I have one brother,

qy	And, is your mother still living?	ny	Yes.

^g	Would you not?	na	Right,

qr^d	I mean, either way there was family reunion time, or not,	na	Right, I usually see her a, couple times a year

^2	Relatives,	sd	father's.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, it was a large reunion of, of that group, from that descendants.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, a lot of those people have,

b^r	right.	sd	And now it has gotten, that, a lot of those people have, have died off,

^2	The next generation,	sd	And so, it's not quite as close as it used to be.

qo	why do you think that it's less close than it used to be?	sd	you know, those were all brothers and sisters a lot

b^r	uh huh.	sd	You know, back around, you know, in the twenties and thirties when they were growing up, you know, they were all located together, in one small community.

b	Right.	sd	And as time grew, I mean when time went on the family grew and moved away and so forth.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but that's just how it is.

sv	we get so involved in our work lives and just, social lives and so forth.	b	Well, yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's more of you know, a smaller unit,

sv	It really makes an effort to, do this anymore.	b	Right,

aa^r	right.	sd	I mean, I used to enjoy going,

b^r	right.	sd	it's going just for the sake of getting together,

qy	Do you correspond with anybody other than your mother and brother that's in that group? On a regular basis, not just Christmas cards.	nn	no,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	but I feel closer to them, because I kind of grew up with them.

b	Right.	sd	you know, and generally when I was growing up a lot of those people, the only time I ever saw them was at the reunion,

b^r	right.	sd	you do not really feel that really close to them.

sd	They had chosen Santa Barbara, California for this summer and did not get enough people that were willing to go that far, because most of us live either in the midwest, or like in the Texas, Oklahoma area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we have a family letter, that circulates,	b	Uh huh.

sd	You have, read something about what is going on and about their children and so forth.	ba	That's a good idea.

sd	So, you are kind of, half way acquainted that way.	b	Right.

sd	And that, that's been a, that's been a nice way of keeping us all aware of each other, I think.	ny	Yeah.

sd	I sent it, on to the next one,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, but we are going in a couple of weeks to the next one, in Scottsdale, Arizona, for that family.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm Nevin from Sunnyvale, California.	fp	Hi,

fp	Pretty good.	fp	Good.

aa	Yep.	sd	I'm ready whenever you are.

bk	Okay .	qw	So, what are your thoughts on the subject there?

sv	Well I definitely think, like decisions have to be unanimous.	aa	Yeah.

sv	It's probably the safest thing.	aa	Yeah.

aa	Yep .	sv	and simple majority won't do.

sv	And even like, you know, two thirds majority, I mean, it's ,	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yep.	sv	And there's always that chance that one or two people could be playing devil's advocate for a good reason, you know.

sv	Like Gives them a little too much power .	aa	Yeah .

sd	but you know, it may be for technical reasons .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	but I mean even now I know we've got plenty of cases out there where people have been wrongly convicted and things like that

aa	I know .	sv	I mean, jeez if the judge was doing it himself, without any checks and balances whose to say.

sv	there would be much more of that .	aa	Yeah

sd	But I . I tend to follow it just to know what's going on.	bk	Okay.

sd	I do too	sd	One of them just got his law degree.

aa	No.	sd	I really haven't studied it in depth.

sd	I know a little more about civil cases than criminal cases. Which is,	b	Yeah.

sv	it's more in how you present it versus, you know, who's right.	aa	I'm sure of it.

b	Yep.	sv	it's kind of weird.

sd@	When I was, a couple of years ago, involved in some pretrial stuff and / * slash error?? one utt with a.57	b	Yeah.

sd	the opposition will say this, this and this and ,	b	Uh huh.

b	Yep .	sv	it's pretty amazing.

sv	And it's like the truth isn't really important anymore.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yep.	sd	Like this friend of mine's pretty obnoxious

sv	people don't want to take responsibility.	b	Yeah.

b	Yep .	sd	See, you're from California,

sd^e	Well originally from Chicago	bk	okay.

b	Yeah.	sv	Pretty strange.

aa	I haven't either other than,	sd	But, that friend of mine's telling me that I might have to go in as a witness.

sd	I'm not really sure how we could change the legal system to make it better. .	aa	Yeah.

aa	I know.	sv	and we already have too many lawyers as it is.

sd	And if it's criminal cases you can't put them in jail because there's no room left.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I, I'm originally from Florida

aa	Not at all.	sd	I'm not real sure what the,

qo	What do you think?	aa	yeah,

sv	At this stage it's hard, to tell.	sd	and, and, I know I'm a real, out of it in terms of taxes

sv	Well, at this stage I think we've taxed property almost to the limit because, like the property taxes on the homes have reached the point that it's precluding people from being able to own a home because of the cost of the taxes on them.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I live in Richardson	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's up over two thousand dollars a year for taxes on my house.	b	Yeah,

sv	and if it weren't for the taxes we're putting in there, look what the schools could cost you.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and the public, colleges also, the tuition has got to be among the lowest in the country.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well if you double the tuition, it would still be considerably less than the public school tuition in most other states.	aa	Yeah,

sv	That would provide, possibly some relief there to utilize some of the property taxes for other things, see.	b	Yeah.

sv	but eventually I think you may tax people out of smoking even.	ar	I don't, I don't know about that,

sd	so I, I couldn't afford to start again .	b	I see.

sv	But all the various taxing authorities that come through, I think the one tax I resent the most though is the additional sales tax for DART which is probably never going to be in existence in my lifetime.	aa	Yeah,

sv	If we had been like a Chicago or a New York City or Philadelphia or someone like that, and had a public transportation system starting in the horse and buggy days and when land was cheap and, construction costs were cheap, you could afford it.	b	Yeah.

sv	But now, digging tunnels under Central Expressway and things like that becomes cost prohibitive.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Absolutely.	sv	Whereas in, in Dallas here we've got, those patterns were well established before we really tried to do the DART.

sv	just take like in Chicago where the people depend on the public transportation system to get them everywhere.	b	Yeah.

sv	and some, people don't even own a car and know how to drive a car.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, most Texans will jump in their car to drive across the street.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I'm just as guilty as anyone else.	b	yeah.

sd	I drive to work every day by myself, without even any thought of car pooling.	b	Yeah,

sv	And, most people are that way. Because they're used to not having public transportation.	aa	Yep.

sd	So, but I, here again I think I resented where they were collecting the sales tax for five years before they turned a spade of dirt. and doing all these studies and the things	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, that's about all I can say at this time.	fc	Yeah,

fc	it's been real nice talking with you.	fc	Good enough.

fc	Bye.	fc^m	Bye.

sd	they just raised our taxes up here about a year ago.	sd	Well, they've, statewide raises,

qy^g	Indianapolis got that, didn't they?	na	Right.

b	Yeah.	qo	how do you feel about taxes?

sd	so they're trying to lower them.	b	Oh.

sd	they just keep raising them.	sd	I've never seen taxes really go down.

sd	and they're going to lower it for next year.	b	Oh.

sv	I guess they figure they're going to make up for all they didn't get when they should have had a budget.	sd	I hope they put that in writing .

sd	but I'll see.	sv	I feel like the middle class people are supporting the nation and, that the rich are not paying their share

sv	I think they're paying too much.	qy	You think the rich are paying too much?

qh	Why bother working?	sd	Well, I don't know many rich that don't have enough tax breaks to,

sv	Well, they should just tax everybody the same amount no matter what you make.	b	Right.

sv	That would be fair.	aa	Now I'll go along with that. You know,

sv	Everybody pays ten percent or fifteen or whatever.	aa	Right.

b	Right.	sv	no ifs, ands and buts, you know,

sv	I think it's pretty fair.	sd	Our state taxes are somewhat based on the federal.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, they have not gotten it where the withholding is accurate.

b	Oh .	sd	and, and you withhold no matter what you do,

sv	so you ought to be saving up some every month to make up for all what they should be taking out.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's been that way for the last probably ten years.

sv	and you don't have it to give it to them.	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sv	But, you know, if you have a lot of federal deduction, it ends up hurting you state wise.

bh	Really?	sv	And you end up owing, you know,

ba	Ouch .	sv	And, it's just ridiculous.

ba	I'll say .	sd	I mean twenty five percent increase.

qo	Well, what do you think about it?	sd	Well, most of the stuff up until now, in the recent months, I, I don't have any problem with.

sv	I don't think it's going to change very much	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sv	In fact, it really was to begin with.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I heard a comment on the radio this morning that, you know, it gets to a point where, if enough people are going to be slaughtered over there over the, the internal problems, somebody may step in again.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, I really think it's a U N issue, at that point because it is internal.

sv	Well, you know the funny thing I find about American opinion is that when we have gone in to destabilize a government before, the American public goes crazy.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And now the fact that we're not interfering with the internal rebellion in Iraq, they're going crazy.	aa	That's right,

sv	You know, I mean you can't please them one way or the other.	aa	Absolutely right.

sv	It has nothing to do with us.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And until he starts doing something so inhumane that the U N gets involved, then it's nobody's business.	aa	That's right.

aa	I mean, yeah,	sv	Some of them have been going on for tens of years, if I understand it right in places like the Sudan and,

sv	and it's certainly been going on over there for hundreds of years.	b	Yeah.

sv	And it's going to continue.	aa	That's right.

sv	As long as you have so many diverse groups that are vying for power, it's going to happen all the time.	aa	Yeah,

sv	They've gotten their butts kicked,	b	Yeah.

sv	and this is just another time that it's happening.	aa	that's absolutely right.

sv	and they'll try it again in a couple of years.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and, and I don't have any doubt that through some back channels we encouraged it. You know.	b	yeah.

sd	But, I'm not real sure that we promised them anything.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that would have been stupid,	b	Yeah.

sv	I don't think they would have done that.	aa	Yeah,

sv	This is just a, another chapter in Middle Eastern history.	aa	Yeah,

sv	this is really nothing special.	aa	Uh huh.

^2	it's mostly religious anyway.	sv	and, you know, by self proclamation this is a holy war

b	Yeah.	sv	And then, we go on from there

aa	exactly.	b	Yeah,

sv	I mean looking at it from the American public's standpoints, they don't understand the Middle Easterners.	aa	That's right.

sv	It's religion couched as politics.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	And there's a big difference.	aa	Absolutely.

sv	and we think that they think the way we think.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And that's a big mistake, because they don't.	ba	You bet.

b	Uh huh.	sv	there's different value placed on human life, right down the list, you know, possessions and everything else.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, what's right is wrong and what's wrong is right in some cases.

sd	I was stationed in Turkey for a year and a half.	b	Okay.

sd	And it was tough, understanding those folks.	b	Yeah .

sd	You know, they, they're, they're so completely different culturally and socially and and religiously,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was very strange.	ba	I believe it.

sd	It was very interesting.	aa	Yeah,

sv	shoot, I think some of these people that they claim as Middle Eastern experts don't have a clue sometimes.	aa	That's probably true,

sv	You know they sit there and read their books and then proclaim themselves an expert.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, I'm not real sure that's appropriate.	aa	No,

sd	that sort of goes to my pet peeve about the education system in this country, too.	b	Yeah.

sv	And we make experts by reading books.	aa	That's right.

sv	You know, and the Japanese and the Germans and everybody else make experts by doing.	aa	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	aa	Absolutely.

qy^d	I, I guess you work for T I.	ny	That's right, yes.

qy^d	So you guys are well aware of the problems with the Japanese markets and everything else.	na	Right,

sv	the only reason our car industry hasn't gone down the tubes is because the Japanese, you know, came into it and helped, us out.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, it, it bites us over and over

sv	but it's going to get even worse later.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean looks who's getting the engineering degrees and the, the math and the science and everything.	aa	That's right.

sv	It's not us.	aa	That's right.

sv	You know, we've got folks running around here who get degrees in basket weaving and you know, underwater psychology, or some ridiculous stuff like that.	b	Uh huh.

qh	and where are the engineers coming from?	sv	well, they're coming from various places,

sd	it's human factors.	b	Okay.

sd	His degree was in, industrial engineering.	b	I see.

sd	and he's from the Philippines.	b	Yeah.

sd	And the only reason he came here was because the education is so much better for those who will go after it.	b	Right.

sd	He has no intention of going back to the Philippines because there's no jobs.	b	Sure,

sv	I mean we've got loads of foreign students	b	Uh huh.

sv	and then they're going back to Korea and Japan, and Hong Kong and everywhere else	aa	Absolutely.

sv	and they're applying it there.	aa	That's right.

sv	we're going to become dependent on these other folks sooner or later.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And the long range views are just kind of, become a thing of the past.

sv	I think it's, it's sticking your finger in the holes in the dike.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, let's plug it up.	aa	Yeah,

sv	It's far beyond me.	aa	Yeah,

sv	all we can do is keep plugging.	b	Yeah.

sd	I read in the paper just last week, I B M's unveiling their new laptop computer.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, at a price tag of six thousand bucks, I don't know if they're going to have a whole lot of takers.	aa	No,

sd	now I , I have the I B M, P S two	b	Okay.

sd	but I'm sorry I got it.	b	Yeah.

sv	there are many better machines on the market right now for a,	b	Yeah.

sd	the only reason I got it is because I got it through an educational purchase plan through the school	b	Okay.

sd	and I saved forty eight percent,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	so I said, yeah, if I can have an I B M for forty eight percent discount, I'll take it.	aa	Absolutely.

sd	But up to that point I had always said I would never have one because I wouldn't pay that kind of money for their name.	aa	That's right.

sv	just sure as anything, the Japanese are going to come out with a laptop at half the price with more stuff on it.	b	Uh huh.

^2	It's already outdated.	sv	it's, it's obsolete,

sd	years ago, I remember when I had a T I ninety nine. Put all the money into the expansion box and all this, that and the other	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and I finally said, well, you can't do this .	aa	That's right.

^q	You've got to buy something and stick with it,	aa	That's right.

sd	The only thing I've done to it is just add a mouse and a hard drive.	b	Okay,

sd	I got the model twenty five.	b	okay.

sd	so it doesn't matter.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, if it does the job, then that's what you need.

sd	He's got a three eighty six and wants to get a four eighty six. You know, this kind of stuff.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	so you said that you live in Coppell.	ny	Uh huh.

qw	So what is your house like?	sd	It's a two bedroom, two baths duplex.

ba	well that's neat,	sd	Brick and,

qr	is it one you're renting or buying?	nn	No,

sv	well that's kind of neat that you can even though it's a duplex, you can still buy.	b	Uh huh,

ba	That's good.	b	Uh huh,

qy	Do you have any children?	nn	No,

sd	and our home is really too small for us right now .	sd	Ours is, too.

sd	we moved from an apartment that was really small,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and at the time we just had a little baby that was five months old	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's in one of the older areas of town	b	Uh huh.

sd	and one thing I really like is it has big trees everywhere	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the house is real small	b	Yeah.

sd	it has less than a thousand square feet	ba	wow.

sd	it's real little.	bf	You all are cramped .

sd	the one that was five months old is seven years old	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I have another one that's three and a half and have all these clothes, and toys and stuff that we're just trying to find places to put,	b	Uh huh.

nd	Well, they advertised it as a three bedroom house because it has a built on addition room, you know	b	Uh huh

sd	but the room that's built on doesn't have a closet	bk	Oh.

sd	so, the people that lived here before us did use it for a bedroom	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we have always just put like our computer and extra toys and books and	b	Uh huh.

sd	But it sure is nice to have it when the kids come over to play	b	Yeah.

sd	they all go out there to play with the Barbies and that kind of stuff,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so, } you know, they can share a room and, make for more space that way.	b	Uh huh.

sd	She's three and a half	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, and right now we have their clothes on, like double racks, you know, in the closet	b	Uh huh.

sd	we made a higher and a lower	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they're just about to get too tall , where the dresses are beginning to drag you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	But we're kind of looking around and wanting to move into a bigger home hoping to be able to do that within a year or so	b	Yeah.

sd	so that would be nice.	sd	That's what we'd like to do.

qy	is Coppell a nice area to live?	na	it's a wonderful place to live,

sd	Well, I think I've heard a lot, about Coppell schools, that they're real good	b	Uh huh.

qrr	or are you not planning on having any,	ng	I don't think so,

qy	Well, do you have any pets?	na	of course, those are my kids

b	yeah.	sd	I have two dogs.

qy	Well, do they stay inside,	ny	Yeah,

ba	Well, that's neat.	sd	They're my babies.

qw	Well, what are the colors in your house?	sd	kind of a mauve and gray.

qy^d	I bet that's pretty.	ny	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm a cow nut .

sd	I like cows, too.	b	Uh huh

sd	our house is very old also	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's like thirty seven years old	ba	Wow.

sd	it was redone at the time probably when earth tones were in	b	Yeah.

sd	like, the carpet's kind of a tan and brown and has, paneling in the living room, and lots of tans and lots of browns	b	Uh huh.

sv	but the good thing is you can bring out other colors from that	aa	yeah,

sd	in the kitchen they put real pretty blue and tan, wallpaper had done it up with blues,	b	Uh huh.

ba	so that's nice,	ba	sounds pretty.

sd	It's close to my, oldest daughter's school	b	Oh.

sd	and that makes it really handy, too	aa	Uh huh,

sd	and she really likes her school,	ba	Good.

sd	and we are so close to shopping	sv	That's an important factor there .

sd	I've always imagined it kind of away from everything.	sd	Well, you know, now we have that new mall in Lewisville

bk	really,	sd	and that's just like a mile or two from our house

ba	well, that's nice.	sd	but, when we first moved to Coppell, it's what, six years ago, we didn't even have a grocery store

ba	wow,	sd	and now we have four

bk	Oh.	sd	and Coppell's not really big enough to support four grocery stores

bf	but it does sound like it's definitely growing.	aa	much very much.

b	Yeah.	sd	In fact, it's about the size now,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and Coppell's now about the size that Lewisville was when, when I moved down here.

sd	Well, when we first moved here, we moved here from Lubbock	b	Uh huh.

sd	that was our second choice, yeah, behind Garland,	b	really,

o	Okay.	sd	All set.

na	I can go ahead and start,	ad	Sure, go ahead.

sd	but, you know, I'm real concerned that I don't want to be on a first floor where you can have problems with things like that,	qy	Do they have many buildings that have security there?

sd@	some places do have guard gates that you have to get through, or electronic access gates and things like that. Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it didn't seem like it was that congested in that part.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the cities are very populated with tenement housing, where there are more than one family in a house. with the, people that are coming into the country from other countries, not knowing the language

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, they're going to the big cities.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It really does,

b	Uh huh.	h	And, I don't know,

aa^r	yeah.	ba	that, that's really sad, you know,

sd	There's a lot of that going on in Dallas, too.	b	Yeah.

sv	it's really sad.	aa	It is

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I really think that we're falling by the wayside with not incarcerating these people.

sv	so they get lighter sentences,	aa	Yeah, exactly.

sv	and some of those people, they don't deserve to be let loose.	sd	in fact on the news last night we were watching this, man who lost his ten year old daughter.

b	yeah.	sd	And while he was gone, he had went looking for a job and stopped at the store,

ba	my gosh.	sd	And one of the men got, I think it was seventeen years

b	Uh huh.	sd	The one that was in for the seventeen years, actually served seven,

ba	that's terrible.	sd	And the man said, that, you know, if it weren't for the fact that he would go to jail, that he would eliminate this person himself. And then go to McDonalds and have a hamburger and not think a thing about it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I mean, I think that what this is going to lead to is people will take things into their own hands. And that innocent people,

b	Yeah.	sv	I shouldn't say innocent, because I mean, actually if they commit a crime that they're in the same circumstances

b	Uh huh.	sv	the reasons that they're doing it compared to the reason someone else is in jail for it, you know, it's like two different things.

b	Yeah.	sv	Sometimes when you lose someone that you really love, you do some crazy things

sv	it's a little more understandable under the circumstances, I guess.	sv	I like the idea that, if someone is from a foreign country, and they come to this country and commit, a crime, I think that irregardless of whether they have already become a citizen or anything, they should be immediately deported.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Especially if they're found guilty of the crime.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, once they have been arrested

b	Uh huh.	sv	That's it,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean they go right back where they came from.

sv	So let their country take care of it.	aa	Exactly

sv	well, I guess we do have a lot of people come in from Mexico, that cause problems,	sv	But the , they're, so close,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Like you take Asian countries, or, the Eastern countries where women are like in the foreground, in the background and the men are in the foreground,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it's like, you know, they live back in where we came from two hundred years ago.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, we've advanced beyond that,

sd	I went to the Far East, back in October to do some training for T I	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I thought Tokyo would be dangerous being such a huge large city with so many people,	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	And they said, it is so safe there that you can leave your purse on the subway	ba	Wow.

sd(^q)	I thought, boy, in America, if you left a purse on a subway, you would never see it again.	ba	Wow.

aa	that's true,	sv	it would get snatched right off your arm .

sd(^q)	But I was thinking boy, in Dallas, if somebody asked me if there were places you wouldn't go by yourself at night, I'd have to set them down for about five or ten minutes to list all the places out.	aa	sure.

sd	They said, apparently the crime, is, just,	ba	That's amazing,

sd	and they really enforce it,	sd	I believe in the death penalty,

sd	They're just very tough on criminals.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and we take the, civil liberties, stuff too far.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know like people that are in prison, I mean we didn't put them there.

aa	yeah.	sv	And as far as like them, entertaining the rights that they should have.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, we educate them,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm not saying they're all bad,

b	Right.	sv	I think that they should be put away.

sv	and if they're overcrowded, well, you know , they shouldn't have gotten theirself there in the first place.	^2	Get rid of them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Or, if they're in there and they've got seventeen years and they're on good behavior, for every year they're in they get so many less, you know, that they don't serve the full penalty.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I, I really think we're going to far overboard with all of this.

sv	I agree, because it's not fair to those of us that deserve a safe, you know, life to have to,	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	I think it's too easy for them.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That if the laws, and were, were harsher and were enforced,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean you have to set an example.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that people know that they're going to get a slap on the wrist, they might serve a little bit of time and that they'll be out on the street again.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it, an I feel bad for the policeman, because he's out there every day facing these people. this craziness, you know, people with, automatic weapons and, all this other stuff and trying to do a job

b	Right.	ad	and let's face it,

sv	not much.	sv	Twenty thousand dollars a year, if they're lucky.

ba	and that's really sad.	aa	it really is.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, and I'm not saying that they're all good either, because there's good and bad in everything,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but they're already, have three strikes against them when they're out there.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Because they'll arrest someone and, you know, go through all that paperwork and writing a report and all this, and having all kinds of evidence

ad	What, go ahead and tell me about your home .	sd	Well, my home at the moment is an apartment.

bh	is that right? .	ny	Yeah .

ba	that's interesting.	sd	So, I own a home in Pensacola,

ny	Yeah.	sd	my home well, is typical for the area.

bd	that's okay .	sd	But it's upper middle class, kind of an environment.

b	Okay.	sd	It's a two story colonial, which my wife and I designed.

ba	that's neat.	sd	it has around thirty two hundred square feet. five bedrooms and so forth and so on,

ba	Wow, that's large .	sd	and I would imagine in terms of, of size and so forth, it's relatively typical for the area.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, but based, you know, in terms of, you know, in Pensacola, in that area of Florida it's what now,

ba	well, that's not too bad,	b	Yeah.

ba	that's still fairly new.	sd	in terms of cost and, and size and so forth, it,

qy	Well, do you mind if I ask what it's worth down there,	sd	when we built it ten years ago, it ran around a hundred and forty thousand dollars.

bk	Okay.	sd	So, I would have really, I haven't really priced, you know, in the market,

sd	I mean, from the way you described it a home like that here would be at least two hundred and fifty thousand .	b	Uh huh.

sd	although right now it's a lot lower , because of all the layoffs and everything	b	Uh huh.

sd	the economy around here is real poor .	qy^d	I thought that was on the upswing again now.

sd^e	not really .	bk	Uh huh.

sd	the area itself, the Fort Worth Dallas area, has become kind of depressed because there's been so many layoffs with big companies, including Texas Instruments .	b	Yes.

sd	but housing is still real bad .	b	Uh huh .

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, Pensacola has

b	Yeah.	sd	And it isn't because of the, well,

b	Oh.	sd	but, I'm sure people you know, in, Galveston and so forth would be knowledgeable about it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And home porting was a possibility a few years ago.

b	Oh.	sd	They were expecting an influx of something on the order of fifty thousand people or more from the Navy,

ba	Wow.	sd	a new carrier was coming in and, the, attendant, support vessels.

qy	it was overdeveloped then?	na	it is.

ba	Wow.	sd	overbuilding has been a real problem there.

b	Yeah.	qo	What about your home?

sd	but it is a home.	bk	Uh huh.

sd	It's on one floor .	bk	Uh huh.

h	I don't know,	sd	Nor do we,

sd	this house was built in seventy four.	bk	Uh huh.

sd	and his house is almost identical to us, except his is three bedrooms and ours is four	bk	Uh huh.

sd	there were probably, like two or three styles you could choose from .	bk	Right.

sd	and, that's pretty much all the houses in the area, for probably a square mile, I'd say, at least, maybe even a little bit more than that.	sd	Well, the housing here in Maryland is just atrocious. And in the entire D C area.

qy	are you close to Sevren?	nn	No,

bk	Okay.	sd	Sevren is east, near the eastern shore,

sd	I have a sister that used to live in Sevren.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and when they left the area they sold it for a hundred and twenty thousand .	ba	that's not unusual, yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so, I was just looking,

qy^d	Sounds like a lot of money though ,	ny	Yes.

b	Yeah.	sv	I guess you pay the piper

b	yeah.	sd	it's not unusual, for example, for somewhere around here on a, on a,

b	Yeah.	sd	but that same house here, you'd pay almost six thousand dollars a year, taxes on it.

ba	Wow, that's,	sd	So, it's, so, the question of whether to buy here or move to another county, say, drive twenty more miles north, buy a condominium for approximately, the same price, maybe a little lower,

qy	That much of a difference?	na	absolutely. Yeah,

ba	Wow.	sd	it's really sad .

b	Yeah .	sd	this is one of the most highly taxed areas in the country.

qy	Do you know?	sd	Well, , it, the, their, they do have an extremely good, such things as extremely good school systems, for example.

b	Uh huh .	sd	because the cost of living around here is so high,

bk	Oh.	sd	public employees make great salaries around here .

bk	Oh .	sd	I was reading just recently where the typical administrator in the, Montgomery County Public Schools makes,

ba	Wow .	sd	by administrator I think I mean,

fp	Hello	fp^m	Hello

fp	Hi.	fp^m	Hi.

fp	I'm calling from Texas.	fp	I'm Sandy.

sd	Took long enough to find you.	bh	really?

qy^t	so did you hear what the topic was	ny	Yes.

qy^t	did she tell you,	ny	Yeah.

qy^d^t	well, if you're ready, then, I'll just go ahead and start.	na	Okay,

sd^t	well I guess we're supposed to talk about the changing roles of women.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I like it the way it used to be.	sd	So am I.

b	Are you,	sv	You know, I think it's kind of coming back around to that, don't you,

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't think that you can have, I mean, there's no way I could have a career and then be the kind of mom that I want to be

b	Yeah.	sv	and to me that's more important.

qw	how many kids do you have?	sd	Two.

qy^m	Two?	ny	Uh huh.

qy	Are they young,	sd	Five and two.

sv	and I hope it just doesn't get to where, you know, there's more and more women going into the work force.	aa	Well, I agree,

b	Yeah.	sv	or, if they wouldn't be able to make ends meet not working or whatever,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, I think it's got to be a personal choice,

sv	and you kind of feel little bit like an outcast for a while in social situations sometimes,	b	Yeah.

sv	but I should get paid at least double what my husband makes working in an office for staying home	b	Yeah .

sv	men don't treat you like you don't know anything, generally speaking.	b	Yeah .

b	Yeah.	sv	and they realize there's a need for that,

qw	So, what kind of home repair work have you done?	sd	Well, done a little, repair on the, shingles on the roof recently.

qrr	Been pulling them up, or just loosening them until the rain came in?	ny	Yes.

qy	Are you in the section of Texas that's been getting so much rain?	nd	We've been getting quite a bit, maybe not quite as bad as some of the folks down around San Antonio,

bk	okay.	sd	and there are parts of downtown or near downtown Dallas that are under water right now, I guess,

qy^g	But you're probably, about halfway across the state from San Antonio, though, aren't you?	nd	Well, we're north and, about, I don't know, eighty to a hundred miles south of the Oklahoma line, I guess.

qy^d	But you're still getting a good bit of the rain, though.	ng	we did have a little bit of rain yesterday.

b	Yeah.	sd	so I guess I'll let it go awhile.

qy	Is it asphalt shingles,	nn	no,

sv	that should be a lot of fun.	b	Yeah .

qr	Did you put them up originally or just going up and stopping leaks in them?	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, it's a small problem so far,

sd	we're in, campus apartment buildings with flat top,	qy^d	then you don't have to do too much with it .

sd	They're just tar and gravel treated flat top roofs.	b	Uh huh.

qr	Have you got pretty well pitch on that roof, or is it pretty steep?	sd	it's pretty steep.

qw	What do you use to keep from sliding off that rascal?	sd	Well, you wear, shoes with good traction, and, and try to remember where you are at all times .

ba	I imagine.	sd	And remember to yell Geronimo, if all else fails.

qrr	or you been doing some remodeling work on it.	sd	It's actually just twelve years old, now.

sv	That's pretty new house yet.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	the main thing that we've had with this house recently has been some, squirming, I call it, of the foundation.

b	Yeah.	sd	but, the soil right under this is a clay,

qy	It's settling unevenly?	nd	Well, depending on it's moisture content, it either swells up or shrinks,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so during the dry season you have to water the foundation to keep your foundation from, drooping

b	Uh huh.	sd	but anytime there's a change in the weather, like the temperature, drastic changes in temperature or in, moisture, you get little spider web cracks all around, windows and doors.

sv	Well, that sounds like a lot of fun.	sd	Well, usually what you do is just wait until you think it's stopped,

qy	What is it like, stucco walls or,	nd	well, it's all drywall

bk^m	drywall.	sd	I think, with,

qy^2	Wood framing?	ny	yeah,

bk	Okay.	sd	But, somehow or other that does manage to, show these little cracks.

qy^d	they plastered over drywall.	ny	Yeah,

sd	I remember my parents home is drywalled and then they, almost like a small grade stucco type plastering over the drywall to give it a textured sort of a look,	sd	I expect that's what it is,

sd	and made for kind of a hard shell on the drywall.	b	Yeah,

sv	that would be terribly exasperating to have the slab floor like that swelling and giving like that.	aa	Yes,

qy	so, do you think our politicians are honest at this point in time?	ng	Generally, I don't think they are.

b	Uh huh.	sv	They don't ever have to go out and get a real job.

b	Uh huh.	qh	you know what I mean?

qy	but, do you see any way of like altering it so that they would become more honest?	sv	I think by putting term limitations on you could slow down some of the problems.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it has to be not just at the national level but at you know, the state and the local level, too.

b	Uh huh.	sv	they've never had a job.

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, they get paid a hundred and twenty five grand a year. Which is more than twice my salary by quite a bit

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and, you know, I'm going, like, I don't understand how they're supposed to be my servants and yet they're paid more than I am

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they work you know, less than I do.

sv	I think there's a lot they need to learn, you know, when you get there.	aa	I think that's true,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, that's true of the Presidency, too,

b	Yeah	sv	I mean, there is a lot to learn,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think it would have to be extended, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	we aren't tackling a massive ballot every four years.

sv	you know, it's going to wind up hurting your state if all the other states aren't doing it at the same time.	aa	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	the C I A is moving out to West Virginia which is a really stupid location for a large agency like that and for almost any agency.

b@	Uh huh . Uh huh.	sv	the world does not revolve around West Virginia as far as this country is concerned,

b	Uh huh .	sv	and the C I A is a very large, very high profile agency and to have it located out in West Virginia,

b	Yeah.	sv	and, you know, it's a, I think it's a mistake to move large agencies like that

b	Uh huh.	t1	or is it the F B I.

sv	I don't see why it makes a big difference the C I A because, you know, officially they don't have any operations within the United States other than administrative.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, we all know that that's not necessarily true.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But I think that, with all the perks that we've given them,

b	Uh huh.	sd	one of the radio stations over here listed off every single one of the perks.

o	So I own a P C A T at my home.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and she uses it to compose and print out letters.	bk	Okay,

sd	So that's a very regular use of it that she has.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm a computer scientist.	bk	Oh.

sd	And also I'm interested in writing some programs that will kind of like remind me of things like remind me that Wednesdays is trash day and the like.	sd	well, excuse me, well I'm a electronics tech.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I learned to repair one

sv	there's really two issues to that that there's so many software packages available today. That just require no programming.	aa	Yes.

sv	but if they were careful, they could make the use of it totally without understanding how the computer works.	b	Uh huh.

sv	your issue is then there really,	sd	Well, space is a handicap with me,

b	I see	sd	And I'm preparing for retirement.

ba	well, congratulations on that.	sd	And I'm not to far from it another year and a half.

sv	well, actually one other thing I might ought to mention is that they are actually getting quite cheap.	aa	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	remember how they started out running three, four hundred dollars.

bf	the calculators you mean.	na	I mean calculators,

sv	You can actually buy a whole brand new computer not a necessarily a slow one or inadequate one but a pretty good one for six hundred dollars.	bh	You're kidding.

nn	No.	qy	Including a printer?

sd	so make it seven hundred.	qy	A hundred?

ny	Yeah.	ba	Wholly smoke,

ny	uh huh.	sd	Well, see of not being particularly interested I don't keep track of prices on them,

sd	you can buy the guts just the guts with the power supply, the box and the mother board of a type of computer called an eighty, eighty eight, for about two hundred dollars.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then the disk drive is two fifty.	qy	Well, what is a good brand a inexpensive.

sd	probably the way to do it if you really wanted to buy one is there's a magazine called COMPUTER SHOPPER.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's twelve inches narrow, the narrow side and seventeen inches the tall side	ba	wow.

sd	and they're all competing with each.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's probably a half a dozen companies around the world that are making those mother boards, the main computer, the circuit board.	bk	I see.

sd	They're available in, you know, the B Daltons, that type of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And like I said it's about an inch thick .	b	Uh huh,

ba	There's great.	sd	Well, anyway that's one ever my favorite jokes.

b	yeah .	sd	One and one equals ten.

b	that's great.	sv	Course it's kind of an inside joke, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	You can only tell that to somebody who understands binary.

ba	that's a good joke.	qy	do you, work with a computers at T I?

sd	and just recently I've changed my job to actually do some of the marketing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't use it anymore.	b	Uh huh,

b	Yes.	sd	I keep track of an inventory here.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And of course now that is where a computer is very handy.

aa	I agree.	sd	And, well it's my responsibility to see that equipment is sent off to be calibrated.

b	yeah.	sd	See I'm with the Q R A lab. Qualification and evaluation

ba	that's fascinating.	sd	so naturally our equipment has to be in top condition and is constantly calibrated,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they're dated.

b	Yeah.	sd	I just run a printout every week

b	Uh huh.	sd	it is handy.

b	Right.	sd	And I must admit that up until I did start using one, I had very little interest in computers.

b	Yes .	sv	But they are amazing.

fc	nice little conversation with you Jack.	fc	Yeah,

fc	Good day.	fc	Good luck to you.

qy	Is it ?	b	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so he spends time doing that with him, planning and, practicing outside.

b	Uh huh.	sd	he's a real sports kind of person,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We take turns with her.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We don't have H B O.

b	Uh huh.	sd	my kids have a Nintendo which they play,

b	Uh huh.	sd	my little girl, Jennifer, likes to do crafty things,

b	Uh huh.	sd	he gets home from work late or whatever

b	Yeah.	b	,

qrr	or is it pretty natural ?	na	It is hard because, you know, at the end of your day you want time for yourself

b	Yeah.	sd	and that's kind of cutting into your time.

b	Yeah.	sd	And with the kids getting older, now on the weekends they get to the bed like at ten which really is late,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, you know, on school nights, the two older ones get to bed about nine.

b	Uh huh .	sd	Maybe Brian will still be up, and spend some time with him.

qy	Do you work during the day?	nn	no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That was two days a week,

b	Yeah.	sd	but with three kids and laundry and keeping the house the way I want it kept, it is hard.

b	Yeah.	sd	Even just finding the time to do the grocery shopping and everything.

b	Uh huh .	sd	And that's another thing,

b	Yeah.	sd	And then, of course, they have a pretty, busy social calendar too .

b	Uh huh.	sd	You fit it in with all that.

qo	So what do you feel are the current trends in the way families spend time in general, you know, in America?	sv	I think a lot of people set their kids in front of the T V and H B O and rent movies and, kind of leave them to their own means.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think, you know, it's very easy to fall into that trap,

b	Yeah.	sv	But, I think different parts of the country,

sd	and we're you know, thinking about having children sometime in the next couple of years	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I have a friend that's a nurse

b	Uh huh.	sv	that's a great career.

b	Yeah.	sd	because she has such a flexible schedule,

sv	But I do feel like it's important that you make the time for children because ,	sv	Well, I think it's a big, responsibility.

b	Yeah.	sv(^q)	When you have children, you have to say, now, this is different

sd	and, guns are very symbolic of them having that power over me.	sd	Well, me being from Texas ,

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	I hope you're ready for this.

sd	I've got my Texan stereotypes in place.	sd	Well, I'm not your stereotypical Texan.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I don't have a fear of fire arms in any respect.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I respect them and what their capabilities are.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And on top of that spending a good portion of my earlier years in the military, as a Green Beret, I definitely respect the power of weaponry.

qy^g	It's pretty power isn't it ?	sd	And here in Houston, as well as just about any big city anywhere across this country,

b^r	Okay.	qy^d	When I mean, you've heard the slogan, if you outlaw guns then only out laws will have guns.

sv(^q)	That applies to anything as well as guns.	sv	well, any of the big cities you've got the different rival gangs

b	Uh huh.	sv	And they get out their little Mac tens,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Since I am a law abiding citizen and I have never had a felony, if I wanted to buy one, I don't think there should be that big of a restriction on it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	If they want me to present a letter from my county sheriff saying that I've got his permission to have an automatic weapon in his county, that's fine too.

x	,	sv(^q)	well, the criteria the sheriff would have to follow is this guy a convicted felon?

b	Yeah.	^q	and if he had an automatic weapon could he really be raising some problems.

sv	you just told me that you're going to get one of those guns anyway.	sv	if they want the firepower they can get it.

qh	So why have any restrictions at all?	b	okay.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'd said about an eight.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I said the restrictions I would like to see for anybody, whether it being for handgun, a rifle, a shotgun,

aa	but, I certainly agree that if someone owns a fire arm that have as much responsibility to know how do, use it safely as someone learns how to drive, if not more so.	sv	in the hands of the wrong person the car can be just as deadly as the weapon, as a pistol.

qy	does that, mean advantage?	ng	not necessarily a price thing.

b	Uh huh.	b	Okay.

ny	Uh huh.	qy	L A area?

sd	San Francisco, Bay area.	bk	Okay.

ny	Uh huh.	sv	And all these people come around,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now if this legislation comes through,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we've gone shopping,

qw	What if you're looking down the barrel of a hand cannon?	sv	Then it's still equally matched.

b	Yeah.	sd	If I'm, at the same, time.

sv	if everyone walking around carrying a guns you're not going to have an increase in gunfire.	sv	it's more of a police action in itself,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Now whether this person is made the moral decision whether he can take another human life or not, that's another trip,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	In defense of myself, defense of my family or defense of my friends I can blow somebody a way in a heart beat. even more so when it comes to my wife and son.

b	Yeah,	sv	Anybody, anybody tries to hurt them I won't even blink,

qw	what if you think someone's trying to hurt them and you make a mistake?	sv	this is where the question of gun control comes in.

sd^t	Well, that, that was the topic.	sv	What, I consider gun control is being able to hit my target with the first shot.

b	Uh huh.	sd	all of a sudden my combat in me goes up

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I make sure this persons sees it so that he's got now doubt that I will use it on him

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	If he doesn't back up at that point he deserves what he gets because I have sent the clearest signal you mess with me, you mess with my family, I'm going to dust you.

sd	Well as someone who would possibly be in the role of an independent bystander, I feel more comfortable with people having blades because, you're not going to get bullets flying around killing people instantly	sd	Well, if I'm the one doing the shooting I don't miss.

qy	Are you a player?	na	I think I am.

bh	Has it?	ny	Yeah,

bk	Oh.	sd	but unfortunately the house is taking up my time.

b	Yeah.	sd	So it's been almost a year, I guess, since I've actually, swung a club for a purpose.

sd	I work at T I.	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess I laid off long enough to get rid of all my bad habits.	b	Yeah,

^q	Let's go around this tree, and you know, try a slice through a hook here,	b	Right.

sd	and I can't do that	b	Right.

sd	and I hope I'm on the right track.	b	Yeah.

sd	Shot a career low eighty nine, and my handicap is twenty nine.	ba	that's great.

sd	I like that.	b	Yeah.

b	Really.	sd	and, I think that's probably going to be one of the next investments, is get her a set of clubs

sd	but she wants to get into it now after I came home and won the tournament the other day,	b	Really.

sd	she's she's ready to get off into it,	ba	Well, great.

sd	and I'm a hunter and fisher anyway,	b	Yeah,

sd	and it's not going to cost me an arm and a leg, really.	b	Right,

sd	I don't ride	b	Uh huh,

sd	you know, I get a little exercise there, too,	sd	I've got the same attitude.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I took it as a P E course and then kind of left it alone for a while,

b	Right.	sd	and since then, we've made it,

b	Yeah.	sd	that's back in South Dakota where I grew up

b	Oh.	sd	so that's, that's been my main involvement,

b	Yeah.	sd	and then I'll show them we can play golf in the middle of winter when we can't do it back home.

sd	They were amazed.	b	Yeah.

sd	so. But, actually I picked it up when I was in high school, on the same as a P E course, you know,	aa	Yep,

sd	when I got into the service I got into it	b	okay.

^q	but I haven't swung them in quite a few years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it just seems like every couple of years I get back in there .	aa	Yeah,

sv	It's really nice.	sv	it's, it's a lot of fun, especially if you can find somebody that's got the same level of interest.

b	Yeah.	sv	that's true of any sport, you know.

sv	you don't want to go out and get beat to death,	aa	Right,

sd	And then, you know, we've got some guys here that they are, you know, four and five handicappers	b	Uh huh.

sv	so. You know, but get somebody around your own handicap, and you can just mosey on out for three or four hours and have a good time.	b	Right.

sd	and never yet have I met anybody on the golf course that wouldn't allow me to join their twosome or threesome.	aa	That's true.

sv	They are always friendly.	aa	That's true.

sv(^q)	they don't mind saying, Well, you know, let me tell you how to do that or teach you how to do that, or,	b	Well.

sv	You know, it's pretty nice and friendly out there	aa	that's, that's so.

sv	and you can't find that in all sports.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sv	After a short period, once you learn everything they've got to offer,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, eventually I'd like to work up, if my wife does get interested, and maybe get involved in a, in a mixed doubles league, or something like that.

sd	it runs from like five o'clock to seven thirty or eight o'clock, you know, because it doesn't get dark until nine thirty or ten.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's going to start, well, when we change time back whenever that is next month, I guess,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, they were shooting a hundred, hundred and twenty	b	Sure.

sd	now they're down into the hundreds nineties,	b	Right.

sd	so, it won't take her long. You know,	ba	Well, that's good that's good, that's sounds like a lot of fun.

sd	she could care less about that.	b	Yeah.

sd	give her something to do that we both enjoy,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I, I go home, I've gone home every year now since I've moved to Dallas to go pheasant hunting,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, kind of the same situation.

b	Yeah.	sv	but, it's interesting,

sv	you don't have to be an expert to play,	aa	That's right.

sv	Any novice can pick up a club and learn how to hold one and learn how to do it and do it right.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, you know, you don't have to be an expert in any aspect of it at all.	aa	That's right,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I keep rationalizing that well, you know, I can do it,

b	Yeah.	sv	it, it really works that way .

sd	and I didn't get it done.	b	Uh huh.

x@	, I never broke a club or anything,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, you know I'd get upset about it sometimes,	b	Yeah.

sd	and now I guess, you know, being in my forties, I just kind of mellowed out a little bit.	b	Sure.

sd	I don't get upset any more.	b	Sure.

fc	I guess I'll go back to work.	fc	Okay,

fc	See you later .	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qy	do you have any pets?	ny	Yeah,

ad	go ahead.	sd	we just got the dog less than a year ago

qw	what kind is it?	sd	He's a mixed breed,

qy	he's got a blue tongue?	ny	Yeah.

bk	Oh.	sd	He's got little spots on them.

sd	but I just love them to death.	qy	Was the guinea pig for your, for your child?

sd	But, our Chows, we've had them, I'd say, right around six maybe seven years	bh	Really?

sd	She's had about four or five litters.	sd	my husband's always wanted a Chow

b	Right.	sd	because we thought they would socialize easier,

b	Uh huh.	sd	my husband had originally wanted an

ba	Goodness.	sd	And the people that he got the from, used to have cats

sd	And, , bringing them in as puppies they got along just fabulous with her.	b	Uh huh.

sd	now I don't know how it would be bringing in, like cat to a full grown dog.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	but I wouldn't feel, hesitant about bringing a puppy in, to adult cats,

b	Right.	sv	I think they would socialize easier.

aa	I think, so, too.	qw	how old is your child?

sd	Five .	bh^m	Five?

sv	I think a lot of that, that we hear all the time is how you bring them up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they're very friendly, and lovable,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they'll just come jump on your lap and want to have their bellies rubbed and everything	qw	What color are they?

sd	and the male is black.	qy^d	I bet the black one's pretty.

sd	so, it was kind of like, she had her babies and understood about, you know,	qy^d	About your baby.

sd	and they love her,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	But I think it really helps them to understand when they go to other people's houses

sd	and I hate that,	aa	Yeah,

sd	in the past, we've had birds, too, like Cockatoos. And parrots and, The big white, birds with the orange crest on top.	b	Uh huh.

sv	they're very messy, yeah, , and loud.	bh	Are they?

sv(^q)	a dog you can tell, stop barking, you know, or whatever.	b	Yeah.

sd	but they were neat, enjoyable animals to have.	sd	Well, we've thought about getting an aquarium, partly for the cats,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think the cats would really enjoy it,

sv	with a lid, .	aa	yeah,

b	yeah	sv	and they're so, expensive to start up.

sv	and in your, the luck of keeping them alive, through those first, you know, few days.	b	Yeah.

aa	I know they are.	sv	most of them really aren't that pretty,

aa	no.	sd	you know, I really don't care much for them.

sv	like you have a little bit of ocean with you or something .	aa	Yeah,

sd	my daughter had like a little goldfish, about a year or two ago	b	Uh huh.

sv	you can just look at it.	aa	Yeah,

sd	You know, you can't roll around and tussle around with it like you can a dog or a cat	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I have to be real careful about where I put things,

b	Uh huh.	sd	if the cats will jump up on things and knock things over all the time,

ba^r	no.	sd	They're always up where they're not supposed to be.

ba	and that's hard.	sv	that's just like kids, you know,

sd	I love having them for that reason.	b	Yeah,

b	Sure.	sd	and now, it's like a major production, trying to find somebody to take care of the dog while you're gone.

aa	that is hard.	sd	we knew it,

b	Oh.	^q	let's take him home.

b	Yes.	sd	You know, and then the first weekend we had him we were in a two bedroom apartment,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my husband went out of town, and left me with the brand new puppy,

ba	fun.	sd	and I had to work twelve hours that day,

ba	no.	sd	and so, I left the dog locked in the bedroom

ba	no.	sd	and he had tried to dig his way out from underneath the door,

qy^g	I guess you didn't get your deposit back, did you?	nd	Well, I had the carpet fixed,

ba	good.	sd	yeah, I didn't even tell the apartment manager, who got it.

ba	Bless your heart.	sd	But that was my first real experience with a puppy

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I wasn't really involved in the paper training, and, you know, teaching him commands and stuff

b	Yeah.	sd	so, this was, to me, a whole new experience.

aa	it is.	sd	Only it wasn't like cats at all.

sd	Our only problem with our Schnauzer, she's an indoor dog , most of the time ,	b	Uh huh.

sd	If you do not pick the trash up, you know, the container, and put it on a table or chair or something, she'll knock it over,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's just she wants to get into trouble.	sd	My cats do that it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	anything that they think is good,

b	Yeah.	sd	and then it doesn't matter where you put it and where you hide it,

b	Yeah.	sd	and how tight you have the lid down on it,

sd	I hate that.	sd(^q)	And the cat's just looking at me like, sorry.

^q	you shouldn't have left it there.	^q	I couldn't help myself.

sd	and she'll cower and go hide under the table.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But she continues to do it,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but he's still chewing.

bh	is he?	sd	the last thing he chewed up was, when we ...

qh	Where to start.	sd	I haven't had that much, of course

sd	I didn't think about that.	sv	using your Social Security number, of course, permits people to do that

b	Uh huh.	sd	and almost anything you do now, a Social Security number is required.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, of course there's another aspect of this, too, in terms of invasion of privacy

sd	and you wonder, well, who's going to get ahold of this and think, that's a nice place to go rob .	sv	And not only that, it opens you to phone solicitations

aa	Right.	sd@	and I've noticed more and more I would say over the last six months / * slash error one utt with b.26

b	Uh huh.	sd@	I am getting more at home phone solicitations for a variety of things from,

sd	carpet cleaning .	sd	I've had them for carpet cleaning,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, you get, please send in you know, this particular card and you get, a free trip or something along those lines.

b	Right.	sd	And so, that bothers me because of course, I enjoy being at home and I do not enjoy getting called by strangers particularly you know, soliciting.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know that a lot of these, of course, are random phone calls

b	Uh huh.	sd	they just, you know, start going through the phone book or going through a series of numbers,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But they have one under, you know, my first name, James.

b	Uh huh.	sd	then they have a third one under just my two initials.

b	Uh huh.	sd	, and I get mail here at home under each of those names.

ba	no .	sd	So I know that they have sold their mailing list.

b	Right.	sd	And, I think those two things bother me more than anything else as far as an invasion of privacy.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I can't really think of anything else offhand, that,

sd	but I find that very annoying . The, mail stuff,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's not nearly as obnoxious as the phone calls.	sd	I think you mentioning the phone calls during dinner,

b	Yeah.	sd	I actually during that period of time you know, usually from six o'clock or six thirty, whenever I get home, until eight or so, I will shut off the phone

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, my daughter gets irate , when I do that because, you know, she's a teenager

ba	oh.	^q@	why are you cutting off the phone, * slash error I might get an important phone call,

sd	and I can call them back .	aa	That's right.

sd	but now with this thing I'm participating in, I kind of have to answer it, because you never know if it's the switchboard or if it's, you know, somebody calling that you really don't want to talk on the phone.	sd	Well now we have a, you know, voice mail system at the office.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now what I have done is, I have forwarded my home phone to the answering service at the office so that I do not have to have a, a ring at all. if I want to do that.

b	Right.	sd	or I will just let the phone ring three or four times and know that it will forward to the office.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so you know, it makes it convenient.

sd	Ours is that way, too.	sd	And when I want to be, you know, not bothered during the day, that's exactly what I do.

qy	, isn't Tigon , part of G T E or vice versa or something like that.	ny	Yeah,

sd	that's what we have.	sd	Except we call it Aspen.

qy	Aspen?	ny	Yes.

sd	I remember reading in the paper a few months back	b	Yeah,

bk	Okay.	sd	And so, we had been using the Aspen service before they purchased Tigon

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I imagine we will be, shifting over to that service or if, in a while . As soon as we determine what we're going to do with Contel after we bought Contel .

sv	that's good .	aa	All right.

sv	but, I guess it's close enough .	fc	well thank you for calling.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Take care.

b	Yeah.	sd	So probably everything I going to say is kind of dated.

sv	It's that time of the year.	b	Yeah.

sd	So we're spend a lot of time on the house and out in the yard and things. But. like to keep up to date too.	b	Oh.

sd	since I got out of college, which was about five years ago, my T V viewing started to tend more towards, documentary, news programs, things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've kind of gotten away from, being a series watcher, having to keep up to date with,	b	yeah.

sv	that makes a big difference.	aa	So, yeah,

b	Okay.	qy	Did you all ever watch that?

na	yeah, I started, too, and, kind of worked away from that.	b	Yeah.

sd	I have a hard time sticking with something like on T V, because, like, it gets real aggravating if you miss it, for a week or two.	b	Yeah.

sv	You feel kind of left out .	aa	Right,

b^m	But, right.	aa	I know,

ba	I believe that.	sd	So, you know, it was prime time,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and we have cable,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, I mean, it wasn't even funny

aa	That's right.	sd	it wasn't creative,

ba	I know exactly how you feel.	qh	You know what I'm saying.

sd	when I first moved down here, moved into the apartment and got cable, I guess I kind of became numb.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then all of a sudden, I started paying attention to network T V again, once in a while.	b	Right.

sd	Right now we don't have cable.	b	Right.

sv	And it's surprising how much it's changed	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's really tough to find something that's going to be good and interesting for the kids. even cartoons,	b	Right.

sv	and kids aren't even going to understand half the humor that's in there.	b	Yeah.

sv	none of it's probably damaging, lot of times.	aa	Right,

b^r	right.	sv	But now, in order to seem, you know, humane and normal, we do allow them to watch cartoons and stuff.

aa^r	yeah.	sv	But it's, just one of those things, you know,

aa	That's right.	sv	I don't understand why, first of all, the public puts up with it. Second of all, why the networks think that, you know, we enjoy that kind of stuff.

aa	Well, that's true.	sv	It's hard to believe that nobody can be any more creative than that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It must be the marketing pressures,

sd	and I'm embarrassed for the people that are even involved in the show.	ba	I know.

qh	You know, why do you do this to yourself?	qh^m	Why do you do this?

b	Yeah.	aa	I know,

b	Okay.	sd	Stuff I guess that mostly public, on public T V.

b	Right.	sd	As a matter of fact, you know when I was a kid, excuse me, my parents used to have,

ba	Now there's an idea.	sd	That was just the rule.

b	yeah.	sd	So we had to give a little oral report before we could watch our program.

ba	That's pretty good.	qy	do you watch sports on T V?

no	I can't handle it very long.	b	Yeah .

sv	If half of the time wasn't spent watching commercials, it probably wouldn't be so bad.	b	Right,

sv	you're missing an awful lot.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'd personally rather see a game on T V than fight the crowds at the stadium.	b	Yeah,

sd	I'll sit down for the big games, the Super Bowl, and the championship you know, things like that.	b	Yeah.

sd	But I don't follow any team.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I like good humor once in a while.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Saved a lot of time that way.

aa	yeah.	sv	But, that takes too much planning.

sd	if there's any series that I pay attention to, I try to watch CHEERS once in a while.	sv	Now yeah, is that still real good.

aa	it is.	aa^m	Is it.

sd	In fact, I think it's on tonight .	b	Oh .

sd	I just got in from outside,	b	okay.

sv	and I consider that fairly intelligent humor. You know.	b	Yeah.

sv	they pick up the words every once in a while.	aa	Right,

ny	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

na	I try to.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah .	sd	It's getting harder and harder.

sv	It's gone through cycles.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But it's real different show than it was when it started.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's funny now,

aa	That's right.	sv	But you can't be outrageous.

b	Right.	sv	You know, if you keep that same format.

sv	Well, I guess there are a few things around still	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	Sounds like you pretty much agree.	ny	Yeah,

fc	Been, good talking to you.	fc	Yeah,

fc	Okay.	fc	Take care.

fc	Bye.	fc^m	Bye.

sd^t	We're supposed to talk about crime in the city.	b	Uh huh.

qy^g	And, seems like all big cities have plenty of that nowadays, doesn't it?	na	sure.

sd	economy's so bad .	qy	Do you really believe that?

sd	That's just what they quoted over the news.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, it does seem up	qw	What kind of newspaper do you get down there?

qw^h	What kind?	ny	Yeah.

sd	we have two, the MORNING NEWS and the, TIMES HERALD.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's a locally owned paper.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The HERALD is owned, I think, by the TIMES out of, L A, or somewhere.	b	Yes.

sd	but there is too much of it, you know, too many homes broken into.	b	Uh huh.

sd	last year sometime our home was broken into.	bh	Really?

sd	and, because we live on a corner and back up to a real, highly traveled main street.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but since that happened, I certainly have.	b	Yeah,

sd	It's, I guess , excuse me, just a standard. , with all the doors and the, infrared you know, motion detector.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Pre , Pretty standard.	qy	Is, Is this, is this one with some company that services you and takes your calls and all that stuff?

sd^e	It's monitored and all that.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think, the thing that makes a lot of noise would suffice.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, this deal that was part of it for, you know, three years or so to pay the unit off or whatever.	b	Yeah.

sv	to answer your question, I think, I think, that is a pretty good deterrent in itself,	b	Yeah.

qy	Uh huh.	qw	And what if a burglar comes along and cuts your phone line?

sd	Well, it's got a back up system that doesn't work supposedly. that if it's cut supposedly it notifies them anyway . Supposedly.	qw	How does it do that?

sd	And I think it probably does these things supposedly pretty good.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Boy, they sure advertise so many of them nowadays.	aa	Sure.

qy	But, well don't you all have a pretty high crime rate up there?	ny	Well, yeah,

h	I don't know.	sv	I think it's the murder capital of the country now.

bh	Is that right?	ny	Yes.

sv	I would gather probably from drugs.	aa	Absolutely.

sv	And I think that's the reason it's so high everywhere.	b	Yeah.

sv	but they do.	b	Yeah.

sd	We've had relatives that their children were just as involved in it, as anyone, you know.	qh	s , so, what's the solution?

no	I really don't.	sv	And all these politicians make hay over, you know being anticrime,

b	Yeah.	sv	but they haven't seemed to have changed anything.

sv	And, I'm not sure that anything will because if something could happen to make these people not want to buy it	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, they want to buy it,	b	Yeah.

sd	I really don't .	b	Yeah.

sv	I don't think anyone does, in fact.	b	Yeah,

qy	do you have a P C?	ny	Yes,

sd	I have a I B M P C myself.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm probably eventually going to get a three eighty six.	qw	What do you use yours for mostly?

sd	mostly, word processing applications and, just as a dumb terminal.	b	Uh huh.

qw	what do you find that you use yours mostly for?	sd	Well, I do a lot of word processing and spreadsheets and data base,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you don't have to make a hard copy that way.

b	Uh huh.	qy	are you using windows?

sd^e	I think I'm planning on like moving up, getting a three eighty six before I move up to windows although, you know, I do like the graphical user environment.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I want to be able I just want it more for multi tasking, which I suppose is also like a Macintosh.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's what I learned a lot of languages on, was an Apple two E in my high school.	sd	But I don't have any real programming capabilities on my, Mac right now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't have, any compilers

qr	Well, do you use your computer for, just things around the house, or in the .	sd	I use it in my business.

qw	Well, see, what do you do?	sd	I, do, consultation and testing of various kinds for, English as a second language programs.

sv	and the teacher just tries to teach English, you know, through natural understanding.	sd	yeah, that's the kind of thing I'm working with exactly.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You seem to be, better informed than the average person on that.

sd	and it always seemed strange to me that, you know, all these people that, you know, spoke English not too well, and spoke, you know, a variety of different languages were all being taught at the same time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	you don't have hand gestures and things like that.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Most of the stuff that I do is not, interactive

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I use it for data analysis on testing,

qy^d	to see how well they retain the vocabulary and things like that.	nd	Well, actually, just, item analysis, statistical analysis of the tests,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, when you write a test you have to look at some data from it and see how the different questions are performing and find out which ones are discriminating well and which ones aren't find out how reliable the test is,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you try correlate it with other tests and things of that sort.

qw	so, what were you doing when you were using an Apple two E?	sd	Well, I was doing some of the same stuff, but doing it more slowly , and with smaller files.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and on my two E I had a hundred twenty eight K .

sd	I remember my first computer was a T R S eighty with four K on it	b	Yeah.

sd	or, you know, if they were really great they had sixty four K.	qy^g	the old the old Apple, the original Apple had, forty eight I guess, didn't it.

sd	I know, I know that in my school they had a bunch that had sixteen K on them, is all,	ba	My goodness.

sd	and there was only one computer that had forty eight K on it at the time.	b	Uh huh .

sd	but I know I B M s, you generally, you know, you buy a megabyte at a time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, that's your low , that's the low end.	sd	Well the S P thirty goes up to eight

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I haven't upgraded it quite that far yet.

o	All right.	qw	what changes do you think have taken place in the last generation?

sv	I guess the biggest one is number of women in the work force.	b	Yeah.

sv	Few are, basically staying home and being homemakers, and raising kids exclusively.	aa	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, I had the advantage of having a mom at home that nowadays it's a luxury item for mothers to be home with their kids.

sd	so she was always, home,	^2	Always home by the time you got home.

sd	it's like something around sixty, sixty five percent or so now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm not sure what the future holds for that	sv	it seems that there's a grass roots, effort or whatever going on

b	Uh huh.	sd	and almost all the people that I clean for, believe it or not, are mothers that don't work .

ba	That's unusual .	sv	and it's, I think it's kind of a new movement

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that in the future you're, I think you're going to see a lot more, women choosing to not work after they have a baby.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think the work force with the salaries that

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't see it as much, like in my situation where I don't have children yet,

sd	my wife's about six months along.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, it's going to kind of go along with the B M W in the driveway or in the garage or whatever.

ba	True.	sv	and the quarter of a million dollar home or whatever.

sv	I would think it would be women that were working full time.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	one of the women is real active with, Muscular Dystrophy. And, does a lot of work with them on a volunteer basis

sv	Well, I guess that's good that they've got something to keep them active.	aa	Yeah.

qo	What do you think?	sd	I would like to be able to do that.

sd	I'm a counselor and a therapist,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I see some of the problems the kids have when they don't have a real good family structure.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	where the attitudes were a lot different.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think morally, it seems like people were a lot better back then as far as higher standards.

sv	and with women working so much they're kind of pulled out of it too.	b	Yeah.

sv	So, kids are raised around their friends and by the media.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And you know, that's contributed,	sv	And I think you're going to see a lot more of that in the future.

sv	there are a lot of jobs that are coming about, like in computers at home, and those types of things, that would at least in some ways, bridge the gap .	b	Uh huh.

qw^h	About?	qy	do you think there's going to be still a family unit

sd	I grew up about the same time you did,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and back in those times we pretty much were taught how to be responsible.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They never learned to be responsible when,	b	Yeah.

sv	and you got twenty and thirty year olds who are living at home with mom and dad	b	Yeah.

sv	you know, you create a bigger family, generation after generation but not really on purpose.	b	Yeah.

sv	and the families, as long as we've got so many other crazy things going on in society.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	ba	That's pretty sad.

sv	but we may have to give up on some things.	sv	I think in the long run though your child will benefit from that.

b	Yeah.	sv	And it will make the strain worthwhile.

fc	Okay.	fc	it was really nice talking to you.

fc	Well, I've enjoyed it, Stephanie.	fc	And, thanks a lot.

fc	Uh huh.	fc	Okay,

sd	and I don't know that that's not a good idea.	sv	That's not a bad idea

aa	I agree.	sv	and it's another form of sentencing.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But on that one thing, I still think it should be a unanimous decision,

aa^r	Yeah.	sv	I think we're getting to the point now where they're going to eventually let it be, majority vote.

aa	no,	b^m	No.

sd	and, he was a courier.	b	Right.

sd	and they sentenced him to fifteen years, you know, which they thought that that was a good thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they were told that, he would probably serve three, of the fifteen, and that he had three previous convictions.	b	Uh huh.

sd	However, they could not tell the jury that during the trial because all three of them were in appeal.	b	yeah.

sd	so here they based their sentencing thinking that this was this guy's first offense,	b	Sure .

sv	but it's just, you know, horrible, since it was first offense	b	Yeah .

sd	and he'd been convicted three times before, you know,	b	Oh .

sd	I mean, he felt that they had been tricked, you know,	b	Right.

qh	I wonder if a judge didn't have control of that if some of that would change, you know.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	Well, we definitely need a change in the system

sv	obviously what we are doing is not working, you know.	aa^m	It's not working, too .

aa	No.	sv	It's just piling up on us.

sv	and you know, there's people in our prisons that are not being rehabilitated in any way, shape, or form,	b	Right.

sv	and either they're in there, forever or when they get out you know, it's a matter of a few months	b	Right.

sv	and they're going to be right back for the same thing	sv	We're just a society not willing to spend the time or the money to do what it takes,

aa	That's very true.	b	Yeah.

^q	and, and the, and the people in those countries rely on our money to survive	b	Uh huh.

^q	but I really believe that we need to take care of ourselves,	b	Right.

sv(^q)	so tell them, you've got five years. To work out a plan, to make it on your own.	b	Right.

^q	after two years we'll cut it down to seventy fiv , you know, seventy five percent.	b	Uh huh.

^q	by then you all should have a plan worked where you can make it on your own without our help.	aa	Sure.

sv	And then we'll have, we will have the money if we would do that to, to work on your own system because we've got some serious problems here	b	Yeah.

sv	and we're trying to, heal the world, you know,	aa^m	Very serious, yeah.

sv	it's just not, it's just not working.	b	yeah ,

sv	but we've got, you know, kids here in the United States that are dying everyday, too. You know, and being, abused and neglected	aa	Sure.

sv	I just have this problem with, trying to heal the world when you're so sick yourself, you know,	ba	You bet .

sv	I think we should try it, like you say,	b	Yeah.

sv	but I think it would be a good idea to try it.	aa	I do too.

sv	So, anyway, well, we all agree.	ba	Well, good.

fc	You too, bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

sd	not, it's not really on a regular basis,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, see, all the family lives in once place, except for a few of us are scattered about.	b	Right.

sd	So they're pretty much just reunited always	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it's just once in a while we get the special gathering with everyone together.	ad	Well, it might be a good time for you to, to start a tradition.

aa	I know,	ad	You could be responsible for that yourself.

aa	that's true.	b	Sure.

qo	How about your family?	sd	Well, in my family, let's see, last October was the forty fifth annual reunion.

sv	you're, a pro at this.	sd	The first Sunday in October, the Jordan family gets together.

ba	that's good.	sd	And all of the descendants of I mean, yeah, the Civil War veterans come together,

qw	And then where do you meet?	sd	there's a big community hall in Vernon Texas,

bk	Okay.	sd	and, that seems to be sort of a middle ground for all of the Texas family.

qy	Do you have relatives in Vernon then?	ny	Uh huh.

bk	Okay.	na	Right,

b	Right.	sd	all of his direct descendants have now died

b	Right.	sd	well, I took them up until this year,

b	Right.	^h	But, let's see,

qy	so this town hall that you meet in, is that like a,	nd	Well, it's a community hall.

bk	Okay.	sd	and, you just bring the covered dishes.

qy^d	Potato salad and,	nd	Well, we try to stay away from those things which might have, salmonella in them.

ba	that's good.	sd	And we choose to bring congealed salad.

b	Right.	sd	And most of us are very conscious of, of, sanitation aspects, whatever you've got to carry for any distance.

b	Right.	sd	I always, take home baked bread.

ba	that's nice.	sd	that happens to be my specialty for that family.

b	Right.	sd	but there are others in the family who do them better.

qy	Do they always have the one person in the family who everyone thinks they know how to make this the best, so that's what they get to cook.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	I haven't, been to a lot,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we talked, a lot about the rituals,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you all equated the family reunions as, with the Protestant.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It was the Protestant version of the Catholic pilgrimage.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but when the Protestant ethic happened in America, there were people who ever went out and, you know, went away from the family to seek their fortune, and then had to come back home for their reunion, so that, became their version of the pilgrimage.	b	Uh huh.

qy	salads go first and things like that?	nd	we have, kind of a core group that serves as, quote, officers of the organization,

b	Right.	sd	and they plan the reunions,

ba	Well, that's pretty .	sd	We have a biographer who continues every year to save clippings on any family member,

ba	That's wonderful.	sd	And they're very dedicated to that,

sd	I wish we'd,	sv	And it helps you feel a strong sense of belonging.

b	Right.	sd	And I got to talking to him,

b	Right.	sd(^q)	I said, "Hey, wouldn't you like to know what's happening with these people?"

ba	that's incredible.	sd	Liked to kill me, because I didn't have that group cooperation,

b	Right.	sd	And, nobody brought covered dishes.

b	Right .	sd	and, it was an enormous task to bring all of those people together with just one or two people helping.

qr	have you done this repetitively, or just once?	sd	We did it that year,

sd	we had a problem with that.	sd	and it was difficult to hold them together.

sd	or the first, you know, major reunion was probably six or seven years ago.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then the second reunion, people who maybe, you know, had sacrificed things to come to the first one thought, well, it's not that big a thing this year,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so it kind of wound down,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then finally, you know, you know, you get the Shreveport relatives there, but no one else	b	Uh huh.

ad	I'll let you go first.	qo	well, what's there to say?

sv	it seems like they could die of old age waiting to get the death penalty.	b	Yeah.

sd	in Maryland they do have capital punishment,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then just nothing happens, just endless, endless, endless appeals.	b	Yeah.

sv	what's amazing is some of them have been on death row for a number of years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, here in Maryland I know we have a real problem with overcrowding in prisons,	aa	Yeah,

sd	here it's, to the point where they were letting prisoners go. commuting the sentences of those that were in jail for lesser crimes, in order to put more people into the jails.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and of course they made a big deal out of the few that got out and turned around and committed a crime within five days of getting out, and being rearrested an.	b	Yeah.

ad	Refresh my memory.	sd	that was the one that was used so much in the campaign. in the presidential race.

sd	I don't remember myself.	qy^t	Anyway, well the question is, you know, do you think, it does make a difference in whether or not a criminal commits a crime

sv	I mean, most people out there committing murders don't care.	b	Uh huh .

sv	They just don't care.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	The police don't catch them,

sd	and they just happened to get lucky and catch the guy.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think they've got over a hundred dead already this year.	sd	Last year it was D C,

sv	and you have to remember that it, it, there's, I think, X number of people out there that are going to commit murders,	b	Uh huh .

sv	and, once you kill off a few of them ,	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean if you murder a guy because he murdered your partner or something like that, I mean pretty soon you run out of people to murder.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, I personally think life imprisonment,

b	Yeah.	sv(^q)	So any, anybody that says life in prison with no chance of parole, I'd say, give them the death penalty .

sv	and that's about it.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	And I think our courts should be geared much more strongly towards finding out the truth than they currently are.

b	Yeah.	sv	and that way we can be sure, you know,

sd	he was actually on the jury,	b	Uh huh .

sd	Of course he didn't die.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so they were so upset from robbing this guy, you know, trying to do this holdup that didn't work that they quite literally were mad and went into a restaurant to hold the place up and just started, you know, shooting people.	bf	Just started shooting people, because they botched the first job

qh	and get even with who,	b	Yeah.

sd	And, it turned out that the, you know, policeman survived to the point that he was able to, you know, identify the guy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And of course, you know, they tried to make the cop look like he was, a, no good rotten drunk.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean it was amazing.	qw	So what was the verdict,

sd	he was found guilty,	bk	Oh.

sd	Now whether they finally got it or not, I don't know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I kind of, stopped listening after a while.	b	Uh huh.

sd	after he had to go,	qy^d	the penalty phase,

sd(^q)	And, yeah everybody was pretty much, you know, let's burn him.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I mean when it all came down, they just, within an hour decided the man's fate.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I've never been on a jury,

sd	well, it, it went pretty quick from what he said.	b	Uh huh .

sv	I think, now if you're dealing drugs now, caught more than twice or something, there's, a death penalty associated with it.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the people I'd most likely want to sentence to death are the people that just show a really low regard for human life.

aa	I agree.	sd(^q)	these are the kind of people I would like to get out of here and get out of circulation and say we don't accept your kind in our society.

sd	I mean kidnapping per se has a certain, fine and penalty associated with it,	b	Uh huh.

qw	so what were you saying?	qy	do you work around children when you work?

sd	I work with computers.	b^m	With computers.

ny	Yep,	bk	Okay,

na	I have some friends that have children, not that many actually.	b	Uh huh.

no	too much about child care in New York .	qy	Does the company you work for have, child care on premises for, employees?

sd	And, I, have just come back and was doing consulting work.	ba	my.

sd	So I am just taking a little bit of time off right now.	qy^d	A sabbatical .

sd	And, if I can do that it will,	b^m	yeah,

sd	But, I might start to go crazy with it too.	b	Right.

sd	I miss the intellectual stimulation.	b	Right.

sd	But at the same time it would break my heart to give her to a stranger right now.	sv	I think it does when they are real little

aa	yes.	sv	and you just miss the little things,

sd	Well, I do not think I would put her in day care for joint , situation right now, unless it was like one other child with a person.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I would not want her to be in a large day care situation so young. Because I think a little infant just does not get the stimulation they need.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, I just think that, you know, when there's two year olds running around, whoever is taking care of, the care givers are going to pay attention to the two year olds.	aa	That's right.

sv	And only when the infant screams, are they going to go there,	aa	That's right.

sv	and if not, the infant is going to lay in the crib all day, and maybe have a mobile above it to play with.	b	Right.

sv	and I think that is so important.	aa	Right.

sv	Well, such as things for learning gives the child stimulation I think is important.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they took infants starting at six weeks,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, they have different things they will put them down on the floor,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there's something about their eyes.

sd	well she's just been doing all kinds of stuff where she's, you know ,	qw	How old is she?

sd	She's two months now, nine weeks.	b	yeah.

sd	And she's just drastically moving her eyes from one side to another and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And she's just started that like yesterday or the day before,	b	Uh huh,

sd	so every days are different.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I will probably be going back to work around January, whereas she will be about, eight or nine months old.	^2	A little older .

sd	I have heard it's a rough age to put them into a,	aa	It is because that's when they are clinging to mama,

b	Yeah.	sv	so you might have a real problem with that.

sd	We are just going to have, to see how things work out.	ba	But that's unusual.

sd	but I am trying to, you know, leave her a fair amount, even at this young age, with her grandparents, just to, go to a movie and things like that. So that she is used to other people taking care of her.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but she's met them.	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, I like that,

qy	Are they all nearby?	sv	but if, you do not have to put them in child care, that's an ideal situation for you, is to stay with them

aa	Yeah.	sv	that's wonderful for the child.

sd	Well, if I work part time that might be doable.	aa	Right .

sv	people before they get pregnant are finding child care for the kids .	aa	Uh huh,

sd	And so, if I go back to work on a part time basis, I am hoping I can leave my daughter with her. Because, her daughter again will be a couple of months, my daughter will be about six months older than hers.	ba	that would be wonderful.

sv	it will be a little rough when she is a very, very little infant,	aa	Uh huh,

sd	and we might even be able to do it on a trade off basis. That I watch, their baby when they want to go out to dinner or to movies or whatever, or if she wants an afternoon off. Even if she wants an afternoon just to work. and not be bothered,	b	Right.

sd	we might be able to exchange that way.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But you know, ideally I think, business should have the, day care centers there, whether it's the parents who take turns watching the kids, or whether	aa	I do too.

sv	and, you know, parents come down to supervise or, whatever.	^2	Really well trained people.

b	Yeah.	sv	and have some kind of real good program, set up so that when you go you can be assured that if there's an emergency that person in charge knows C P R or first aid

b	Yeah.	sv	or, and have some kind of program set up, like you say, to stimulate the kids, or educate them in some manner. And have the, you know, the right toys and the right setting and, have, an organized type of program set up so that the kids have a schedule, you know,

b	yeah.	sv	that's real important to little kids.

sd	and it's probably my fault, because I do not have a real schedule now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well she's been staying up late at night and, you know, sleeping late in the mornings and things is just fine by me .	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	ba	And that's a problem,

sv	so that, a judge, I think, would be the most appropriate person to be able to sentence somebody since they do it over and over again every day.	aa	Right.

aa	Right .	sv	so a judge, you're right, should have the whole dossier of the criminal there

b	Uh huh.	sv	and if they're judged guilty would probably be in a better position to give an appropriate, sentencing.

sd	It's almost like the NIGHT COURT we see on T V.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that was one thing I thought about that would be really neat if we could do it that way.	qy	there would be some types of crimes for which you're not guaranteed a jury trial?

ny^r	Yes.	nd	I, I don't,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I would tend, myself, to say that we should continue to guarantee a jury trial for criminal cases anytime a, one of the parties wants one.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And usually it is the defendant, I guess, that wants to have the jury hear the case.

b	Sure.	sv	So I'm not out for streamlining things to the point where we, take that, you know,

sd	and I didn't mean that .	bk	okay.

sv	Sort of like car accidents, you know,	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think, that you can waive the right to a, jury trial

aa^r	right .	aa	so. I agree that that should be encouraged.

b	Uh huh.	sv	People should know that that's an option just in case they feel they have to have a jury trial.

aa	Right.	aa	Yeah.

no^t	Well, I, i , we're at liberty to talk and meander as long as it's all on the same theme.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Well, in the case of, civil, things, I think maybe the use of the jury is very, often to the lawyer's advantage

aa	Right.	sv	it's to their advantage to play to as big an audience , as possible

b	Uh huh.	sv	I'm not so sure I'm in favor of that.

sd	bu , well you can tell I haven't been in too many judges chambers or anything like that .	qy	Have you ever had to serve jury duty?

no	well I was called once when I was nineteen	b	Uh huh.

sd	they let me out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that was almost twenty years ago .	b	Uh huh.

ba	How interesting.	sd	we rendered a verdict

b^r	Uh huh .	sd	And that was here in Wisconsin.

o	Okay.	b	All right.

ad	Go ahead.	qw^d	Well, what kind of car would I want to buy.

ny	Yeah.	no	I don't know.

qw^d	well, if you had all the money in the world or something.	sv	If I had all the money I wanted, then that's whole different matter.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I don't know if I'd want one of those now.

bh	really?	sd	Of course I would want one if somebody was was given to me.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I maybe would buy a B M W. or even a Volvo.

qw	What do you have now?	sd	I've got a Dodge Daytona.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's actually the first car we ever bought new.

sd	my car is the first one we ever bought new, too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But we just bought another used car, a couple weeks ago, actually.	b	Uh huh,

sd	mine is a Honda Accord.	b	Uh huh,

sd	some of the cars that I got were like the Toyota Camry and the Nissan Maxima and some of the competitors	b	Uh huh.

sd	and mine is a standard	b	Yeah.

sd	and the reason I got a standard was because I thought it handled a lot better	b	Uh huh.

sd	it had a lot more pickup and everything.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	qw	what rental agent did you go to to actually rent to rent those kind of cars.

sd	usually AVIS.	br^m	To what, AVIS?

na^m	AVIS.	bh	Really.

ny	Yeah.	b	Huh.

sd	but we have corporate contracts you know, with the various companies	bk	I see.

sd	so it depends on your destination, too.	b	Right.

sd	Kind of strange .	qy^d	You work for a big company, then.

no	Work for T I. Uh huh, which is how I heard about this .	bk^m	T I, I see.

b	Uh huh.	sv	one thing I really liked about the Dodge Daytona is the fact that they have, this seven year warranty.

b	really.	sd	and it really saved us some big money once.

bh	It did,	ny	Yeah,

ba	my gosh.	sd	and the bill would have been over fifteen hundred dollars,

ba	that was great.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and it's excluded.	sd	Well, we bought the the extension and, at the time we bought it it was like, you know, I don't know, four hundred and twenty five dollars or something extra.

sv	you got your money's worth.	aa	Yeah,

ba	that is good.	sd	But, we still have like, you know, three years left on it.

sd	Mine hasn't had any trouble except last week a shopping cart crashed into it	ba	no.

sd	but I was real lucky because it just hit the, the lens to the light.	qy^2	Bumper?

sd	So it cost me twenty five bucks to replace that,	ba	Well, that was good.

sd	so. No big deal.	b	Uh huh.

ng	I probably wouldn't, just because I already have one	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, you know, if I had to make the choice again, yeah, I, I'm perfectly happy with what I decided although we did just buy another car,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that's a Legend	b	yeah,

sd	but it's a used one	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was a real old one	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it served me real well, too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So he's been impressed with all the Honda cars.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm not certain,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I have, I have never had,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so, I bought a used Yugo just to be a you know, little car that I could care less about

qw	How did it go for you?	sd	well, it's worked.

qy^d	Hasn't left you stranded.	no	I mean, that's exactly what it is, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, It's actually kind of fun to drive.

b	Really.	sd	it's like too mushy,

^2	it's windy.	sd	you know, you feel like you're in a boat or something, you know,

sd	the Legend, it's just so huge.	b	Oh.

qy	right?	ny	Yes.

qy	have you done much camping?	ny	yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I camp at least one weekend

ba	well, that sounds good.	sv	I'd say I camp quite a bit.

qw	Where do you find places to camp?	sd	Well, we do a lot of canoeing when we go camping

bk	Oh.	sd	and we also, carry all our equipment with us

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so we canoe down the river and then, sleep on the river on one of the, sand bars and then get up the next morning, cook our breakfast, and go down the river again.

ba	Well that sounds adventuresome .	qo	How about yourself?

sd	but we have just found it just real enjoyable to be alone up in the mountains.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	and they do a lot of camping with the scouts	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so that's been real enjoyable for them.	ba	Great.

sd	and this year I believe they will be in tents also.	b	Uh huh.

ny	yeah.	sd	It doesn't get very cold in Texas,

bh	is that right?	sd	We just use trail tarps.

qw	and what does that consist of?	sd	it's just a piece of material that has a lot of places where you can tie off to it and make it into a tent like a,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they're very light weight

b	Uh huh.	sd	so you carry them with you,

sd	so I like to sleep on the matresses.	b	Uh huh.

qy	so, have you had any encounters with wild animals or anything like that?	ny	yes,

ba	Gee.	b	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But we got to see a lot of deer out and about

bk	Oh.	sd	of course, we see smaller animals all the time,

b	Oh.	qy	Do you know what armadillo is?

na	they're covered like with a heavy armor type stuff,	b	Uh huh.

ny	uh huh.	sd	And possums, and, raccoons.

ba	My word.	sd	And we have those creatures down here that they like to go hunting for a midnight snack.

b	Uh huh .	sd	And so that, that can be a problem if you don't put all your equipment away.

qr^d	But they won't necessarily attack a human or bite you or anything.	sd	They will if you attack them.

bk	Oh.	sd	But most time they run away from you if they see you're up, you know

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they don't have any problem walking right by you if you're asleep.

qy	Do you have a personal computer?	na	We have one.

qy	You do, in your home?	ny	Yes,

qy	Do you find you use it a lot?	ng	I don't use it as much as my children and my husband do.

qw	What kind do you have?	sd	We have an I B M compatible.

ba	Well, that sounds interesting.	b	Yeah.

sd	I have a P S one I B M type.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I put all my personal stuff on it at work .	b	Uh huh.

sd	but probably if I didn't have access to one all the time at work, I'd want one at home.	b	Right.

qy	What is that tracking the flights and things?	na	Right,

sd^t	They tell us when we're through.	bk	okay,

bh	really?	ny	Yes.

sd^t	and it's time for you to wind up in the next thirty seconds or something like that.	bk	okay.

sd^t	It's not more than five min , ,	ba	Uh oh.

sd	so I'm just going to ignore it.	b	okay.

sv	It's kind of a hassle when you have this,	qw	where do you work?

sd	I work at Texas Instruments.	bh	you do?

ny	Yes.	ba	well, of course.

sd^e	I sure do.	ba	Of course.

sd	I'm already home for the day.	bk	I see.

sd	so I'm pretty busy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We use Word Perfect, Lotus.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think that's about my favorite.	sd	I've heard that people that finally learn how to use it really like it.

b	Uh huh.	ba	That's great.

sd	and I know there's still a hundred things I don't know how to do on it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, you know, you learn something every time you use it.	sd	I have a question.

b	Uh huh.	qy^t	Do I start calling in myself

qy^t	did they give you a number to call?	na	Right,

sd^t	but you can only make one call a day.	bk^m	only one a day.

sd^t	if you've talked to someone, like you're talking to me now and I place the call, this counts as your call.	b	Right.

sd^t	So you cannot make a call now until tomorrow.	bk	I see.

sd^e	we both do.	bk^m	we both do.

qy^t	Didn't they ask you for your I D number when you answered?	na	Right,

sd^t	so you both do.	ba	Well, that's a pretty good deal.

aa	From what I understand.	qy	So why are we doing this?

sd	It's for research.	sd	Actually, I'm doing this but, you know, for a friend of mine.

sd	It's a research type project on voice activated electronics, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now I don't know, I don't know everything about it	ba	Well, that's wonderful.

sd	and that way they can check voice patterns.	bk	I see,

sd	and get the computer where it recognizes voices.	ba	Wonderful.

aa	Well, I probably do because I've,	sv	and I think that I don't.

aa	so I probably do.	qw	And you're in what city?

sd	It's right outside of Dallas.	bk	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that's right outside of,

sd	Well, Richardson's right between Dallas and Plano.	ba	How about that.

aa	You probably did.	sd	And then I have a sister that lives in Austin.

qw	Well, what are you doing way in Washington?	sd	Well, we're actually all from Nebraska.

ba	Well, that's interesting.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	So I imagine they use personal computers.	ny	Actually, yes,

qy	Do they do their correspondence on it?	ng	I think they just send Christmas letters on it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	mostly my one sister uses hers for her children. You know, children's games.

sv	I honestly don't feel like it's strict enough in my opinion.	qr	In the way that it's applied or it's applied at all?

sd	Applied at all.	qw	how do you feel that it should be applied?

sv	Well, I just feel like there's a lot of murderers and rapists, and everything else, just walking the streets. You know?	qy	And that, the penalty ought to be out there, and be enforced?

sv	Not getting paroled, lets say in so many, years.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, if your going to sentence somebody, lets say twenty years, let them stay twenty years.	aa	I agree with that completely.

aa	that's right.	sv	Because if they turn around, they get away with it,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they get a slap on the wrist.

b	Yeah.	sv	and they final get up to where they kill somebody else,

sv@	They have really got it better than we do, in a lot of ways . You know? / * two utts? you know as sep?	sv	Well, they certainly are living off our ex , at our expense.

sv	it seems like, really a rough time	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, when they go to prison, it, they really seem like it's a rough time for them	b	Uh huh.

sv	he's just there to serve his time, and get back out on the street.	bf	and be paroled, and and have served the sentence,

b	Yeah.	sd	that's what people face with that choice.

b	Uh huh.	sv	that should be life,

b	Uh huh.	sd	if they're even in that long.

sv	I would love to see them just really get real strict on parole you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	There's should be, you know, for this crime, this is the penalty.

aa	yeah.	sd	This is what's going to happen.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, I mean, it sounds horrible.

aa	I know.	sd	because they let them back out again,

b	Yes.	sd	then they put them back in jail,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and these guys just are on the endless merry go round in the legal system.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it's like I said at our expense.

sv	a lot of people really doesn't think that much about it, because it hasn't happened to them, which it hasn't to me either, you know?	b	Yes.

sd	But still, it could.	aa	I know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they just get away with it,

sd	You know, I, haven't kept up, you know, anything, like that.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and people like Charles Manson, and some of these other people, who were sentenced to death at the time they repealed the death penalty, were sentenced to life in prison, and are now that even though California has reinstated the death penalty, for whatever various crimes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's been denied fortunately

qy^g	But still, it came up though, didn't it,	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then while he was on appeal on his thousandth and one appeal, the state of California revoked the law in the early seventies,

b	Uh huh.	sv	It seems like a lot of times the law is totally on the criminal side, and isn't protecting the rest of the people.

sv	The victim is really, seems like left out in the cold, more or less, doesn't it,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and you read, you know, you think, oh my goodness	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then he gets up for this one trial,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know if they say it's the first time offense or whatever,

bf	Or, you know, plead insanity.	aa	Yeah,

o@	You know . * slash error And a lots of things. / * slash error	b	yeah. Well,

b	yes,	sd	They plead insanity

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and then three years later they're cured, and let loose on society again.

sv	it just, just doesn't make sense,	sv	I mean, it's a it's a scary world out there anymore, where your afraid to go out,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I certainly, I, I grew up in a smaller town in Texas,

sd	Well, like I, said, I live in a small place. You know.	sd	We could go around,

sd	but now I'm raising children.	b	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and now I don't let my kids out of the front yard, that I can't see them.

sv^t	Well, we're probably fixing to run out of time pretty, soon,	b	Uh huh.

fc	but I've enjoyed talking to you.	fc	Well, good talking to you too.

fc	Bye	fc	bye.

ad	Ladies, first.	ba	no.

qy	so your a homemaker?	ny	Yeah.

sv	I guess, that's, the right term nowadays.	aa	Yeah.

sd	and she stays home, too, also.	b	Huh uh.

sv	for example, like the COSBY SHOW to me is just kind of like a waste of my time, and DIFFERENT STROKES.	b	Huh uh.

sd	But I like SIXTY MINUTES, PRIME TIME LIVE.	b	Huh uh.

sd	I like the old timey ones, TOM AND JERRY.	sd	You sound like my husband.

o	There you go.	sd	He likes TOM AND JERRY and, BUGS BUNNY AND ALL HIS FRIENDS. And all those guys.

sd	JOHNNIE QUEST. the good ones.	b	Yeah.

sd	now if I'm ever home during the day on a vacation day, I have to catch at twelve o'clock the ANDY GRIFFITH SHOW, because I usually, because he's one of my idles.	b@	Yeah. * slash error Yeah.

sv	it seems like nowadays everything is so electronic, you know, magnified and animated, that you can grab from the old style movies and old style shows a little bit more insight to family groupings.	b	Huh uh.

sd	I just don't watch it. Because of the timing,	b	Yeah.

sv	but, some of the crap that's on T V nowadays, it's about .	b	Yeah.

sd	I do watch the special shows that they come out with, the NOVA stuff. and, the nature shows.	b	Yeah.

sd	we don't have cable to the point of the H B O or any of that stuff.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd*	Well, I find myself watching just a whole lot of whatever is geared for children. Because, * two utts with two kids

b	Huh uh.	sd	and, you know, I don't want them watching something that I don't think they should watch

ba	me.	sd	And I watched that for like, ten or fifteen straight years,

ba	no.	sd	like at work, we'd have a T V or whatever.

bf	Fifteen years.	b	Yeah.

bf	Bet they hated that.	sd	I had watched it since it started.

ba	goodness.	sd	now I don't know who the characters are,

sd	I can remember staying home, when I was five and six, and my mother watching the EDGE OF NIGHT.	b	Huh uh.

sd	Well, I think they were back to back, and black and white.	b	Huh uh.

sd(^q)	and I was like, my gosh.	b	Yeah,

^2	Still be on.	sd	It was not too long ago.

sv	Now they got a lot of other crap involved.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think some of the tones of the daily prime time is questionable,	b	Yeah.

aa	I have to agree with you.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know keep them on the channel twenty one. The nature stuff, you know .	b	Right.

b	Huh uh.	sd	My younger one doesn't.

b	Huh uh.	sd	She's more into the animated stuff, where my other daughter liked puppets and that kind of thing

sv	and I do appreciate speaking with you.	ba	Sure.

qy	Have you gotten your catalog yet?	nn	No,

sd	and it inspired me to make more phone calls .	sd	I've had a few people call me,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah.

ad*	Give them your pen number. / * sp: pin	aa	Yeah.

fc	Have a good day.	fc	Thanks.

qw	Tell me, what are some of the things that you did with your children when they were growing up?	sd	well, when they were little, we did lots of reading and playing and going to parks, and things of that sort,

b	Uh huh.	sd	They were both interested in things like model rockets,

sd	and so as they were growing up much of, our, normal life outside of school and everything revolved around their swimming.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so we were always together at their meets.	ba	well, that's good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they both did T ball and soccer in grade school,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but neither one of them carried on, the sports after that.

sd	they even made nationals.	ba	wonderful!

sd	and we tried to do things both together and individually with the children,	b	Yeah,

sd	so we would always go in for the museums.	b	Sure.

sd	so, one of the things that we did with him a lot was to go, either my husband or I, or both of us would, t , concerts with him.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so our whole family, we take family trips to different places to visit or go to fish shows,	ba	My goodness,

sd	I don't think we've missed a fish store on the entire northeast coast of the United States .	ba	my goodness.

sd	but as they got older we tried to pattern our vacations where we would travel and do things, and that there would be a feature each day. Whether it would be going to,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we went to the marble quarries up there, to see that, and another day fish hatchery,	b	really .

sd	and, so } you know, we did try,	b	Yeah.

sd	and of course we learned too.	b	Yeah.

sd	when they were very young I did not work.	b	Yeah,

sd	but that leaves me off on holidays and summers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think they need me more, when they were older, than they did when they were,	b	Yeah.

aa	yeah.	sv	You want to be around for the crisis and things like that,

qy	do you have any feelings as to the trends that you see?	sv	the one trend I would say is that with so many more women choosing professional careers, there are fewer of them home in the afternoons,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I don't think it needs to be the mothers,

sd	but there were always things that just tumbled out.	b	Yes.

sv	when it's not there they miss it.	aa	I think that's true,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Even when I was there, my boys didn't share all that much with me, and certainly not to the extent I did with my mother.

sv	but occasionally they do,	aa	Yeah.

sv	and when they do, there's a reason for it, that they're sharing it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and at least I've wanted to be available, when for some reason, they had, they were bouncing something off of me. Because it was something that was bothering them or they were concerned about,	b	Right.

sv(^q)	you just felt, gee, if I weren't here, how,	b	Uh huh

aa	That's right.	qh	Or what would they do?

sv	You don't have grandparents near by or aunts and uncles.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, I grew up in a situation where on weekends we were always visiting relatives.	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd	They were fifty miles away

sd	every weekend there was some visiting somewhere.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's not that constant thing where you are on intimate terms with cousins.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they saw them a lot,

b	Yeah.	sd	their cousins are about ten years younger.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, they never played together or anything.

b	Yeah.	sd	And there are only two of them

sv	where parents are spending less time, you don't have the families, to take up the gap.	aa	That's right.

sv	And so the kids in some ways are, are suffering a little bit, in that, the role models that get the, the family issues that get discussed, and all these, I think are very important parts of them growing up,	b	Yeah.

sd	We keep in close contact with grandparents and talk over the phone,	b	Uh huh.

qh	because then how do they pattern their own?	sv	Well everyone makes it's own model,

b	Yeah,	sv	and it's helpful to have, things that become family traditions, and that sort of thing.

sd	Well, we have had this tradition, that we always go out before Christmas and cut our own tree.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now, this year, it's, was hard with our son now being in college.	b	Yeah .

sd	but we did that from the time the children were young enough to realize what it was until, our older son went away to college.	sv	well, that's the kind of thing that they will remember, though.

sd	And we have advent calendars still, from the time that they came, you know, to,	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh.	sd	We had a felt one that was li ,

b	yes.	sd	and then you took it off and put it on the tree,

sd	a friend a friend of mine from Denmark hand appliqu3ed one for each child.	sd	And it finally got moth eaten,

sd	and you buy a present,	b	I see.

sd	and I mean, the presents have gone from the days when they were very young to a little box of Band Aids and an eraser and things,	ba	How cute.

sd	today, where, sometimes I put a little gift occasionally a Christmas tree decoration which they will save for their future, to sometimes, just money, pieces of candy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	for my older boy that was in college I put a dollar bill for each day. Which was the equivalent	qy^d	I'm sure he appreciated that!

nd	well, it was the equivalent of a Christmas present.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and those will be passed on to them when they, when they get married and leave.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that is the trend in a lot of, lower class areas, for the grandmothers to be raising the children.

aa^r	yes,	sv	a lot of it is due to the fact that the mothers are on drugs.

sd	We, as I said, living in an area of Washington, D C. We definitely see this,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, it's that grandmother figure, not only raising her own children, but raising, children from the streets, too, frequently.	aa	Right.

sv	it's a rite of passage .	b	Yeah.

qy	Are you in the middle of anything?	nn	No.

qy	The whole thing?	ny	Yeah.

qy	Did the framing and all?	na	we did it all except for the sheetrocking.

sd	and I did all the sheetrocking and the interior work .	aa	Yeah,

b	Ye ,	sd	and whatever you have to put in there to take the gaps out between the sheets and on the ceiling and all that.

b	Yeah.	sd	we didn't know a thing about any of that

sd	My wife wishes I hadn't done that.	sd	I didn't think we could do it and make it look professional.

sv	I think it takes about three or four times before it gets easy.	aa	Probably so

qr	or was it stuff that was already, enclosed?	sd	It was brand new.

b^m	Brand new .	sd	We started with the backyard and turned it into part of the house

qy	and you knew how to do the framing?	no	well my dad knew how to do most of it, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	he'd, we'd gotten a couple of books

qr	do you build on slabs down there or did you build it up off the ground?	sd	it's off the ground.

qy	On the piers?	ny	Uh huh.

qr^d	or you did them yourself?	nn	no,

qy	You just put forms in the ground and fill them with concrete?	ny	Yeah.

sd	Well, the last thing I did completely myself was an outside deck which I was pretty proud of .	b	Yeah,

sd	I designed it from scratch and did it did a pretty good job.	b	Yeah.

sd	You can always tear stuff out and redo it.	b	Yeah,

sd	I I built it two levels and with a big toy box and some benches and, a backrest and all that stuff.	b	Yeah,

sd	And, and then the rest of it I just did.	b	Yeah.

sd	The same size as the addition that I just put on	b	Yeah.

aa	Yeah.	b	So, yeah.

sd	I think it cost me three dollars a square foot and, you know, no less than that.	b	Yeah.

sd	cost me about six hundred dollars all together.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	it got surprising as to the fact that how much wood is, you know.

sv	I'd be surprised if it wasn't, cheaper where you are.	sv	It's probably more there.

sv	It probably comes from where you are.	aa	Yeah,

sd	When I drive through that area, that's all I see is pressure treated lumber yards.	b	Yeah.

sd	East Texas.	sd	gas is a dollar twelve a gallon,

sd	my current project is a walkway which I'm building around the house and out to the backyard you know, digging it out and laying sand and putting, pavers on top of that	b	Yeah.

sv	That's a lot easier.	ba	You've got something going all the time.

qo	Well, let me just start by asking what you think of this Middle East affair we've got going on?	sv	I think that it's time that we concentrate more on what's going on within our own borders than what's going on in the Middle East.

sv	Just let these people fight it out	aa	I agree.

qh	and what does it cost these people over there, you know.	aa	Absolutely.

qo	The break ups?	sv	I think that's great.

b	Uh huh.	sv	that doesn't seem to cost a whole lot of money.

aa^r	that's right.	sd	But I'm ready to have a President elected that at least has some sort of a domestic agenda,

sv	and we wouldn't have to spend the billions and billions of dollars each year that we're spending.	aa	I agree.

b	Right.	sv	and I think there's a limit,

sv	We've been writing off way too many bad debts country bad debts. Exactly.	b	Yeah.

aa	I know it.	h	I don't know.

b	Right.	sv	you either do it this way

sv	you're either liberal or you're conservative,	sv	and it obviously isn't working.

sv	there's just too many issues that come up that, our senators and our congressmen vote on simply because it's a Democratic issue or it's a Republican issue	b	yeah.

sv	and if they would vote with their conscience and with what their constituents feel, I think, we might have a lot better, a lot more efficient running government and a lot better laws passed.	aa	I agree with you.

bh^m	He's one of the two,	ny	Yeah,

qy^g	Senators are in for six years, right	na	Right.

qw	and, when did you guys vote him into office?	sd	unfortunately nineteen ninety.

sv	you're stuck.	aa	Yeah,

qy	so do you do a lot of cooking in your family?	ng	I do some every now and then,

b	yeah.	sd	When I was single we used to always cook, around the house.

qy	do you like to cook.	ny	yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd	like, I grew up with you know, having Polish and Ukrainian food.

b	really.	sd	And my wife, she likes Italian and stuff,

b	Oh.	sd	so we definitely have different tastes,

sv	but that's neat though, because you get to have different stuff .	b	Uh huh.

sd	he put himself through college working in restaurants.	ba	wow.

sd	they're really happy, that I don't cook anymore.	qy^g	they're like, preferring it now, right .

qy^d	You obviously have one.	ny	Yeah,

bf	you have two.	aa	Yeah,

b^m	Two and half,	b	Yeah,

qrr	Or are you not at that stage yet?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	We try our hardest to get them to eat what we, eat, you know.

b	Right.	sd	And my sister, she's the master of the fast order grill, you know,

b	yeah.	sd	she makes six different meals,

ba	my gosh.	sd	Like to have one thing, you know,

sd	I couldn't .	sd	and then she makes noodles with, soy sauce or whatever,

sd	Boy, I couldn't do that,	b	But, yeah,

b	really.	sd	it has a French name,

qy	what is that, Saint Jack or something.	ny	Yeah,

sd	Scallops Saint something,	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd	but, it was basically just ground up Swiss cheese and then, standard cream sauce base and then, the scallops.

^2	with scallops.	sv	and it sounds sort of funny

sv	And, that sounds delicious to me.	b	Yeah.

ba	That sounds great.	b	Yeah,

sd	they had, a murder mystery,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you had to solve the mystery during the dinner,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, so I was thinking there's this Beef Bourguignonne recipe that I've tried before that's pretty good	b	Right,

sd	and you can just leave it in the pot on a stove until you're ready.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	she likes to, she doesn't like the beef dishes.

b	yeah.	sd	and, like I said, we always ate beef and, pork, you know, a lot,

sd	and they, always made sure they had a lot of meat at the table .	b	yeah,

aa^r	yeah.	sd	My dad could eat, a meal with out any vegetables at all.

ba	my gosh.	sd	And, Susan's, you know, they had, you know meatless meals, you know.

b^r	yeah.	sd	My dad wouldn't know what to do.

ba	gosh,	sd	Course, she grew up Catholic

sv	that's just part of it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but my husband always did it kind of grudgingly,	b	Uh huh.

sd	There was dishes that he really enjoyed, eating.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so he had to put up with it .	b	Right.

sd	I had to make vegetarian meals without using soy beans,	b	Yeah,

aa	That's true .	b	Yeah,

sv	Because you do have to make sure you have the right combinations of different proteins to make sure they're complete,	b	Uh huh.

ad	So, well, I guess I'll let you get back to feeding your little one there.	ar	No,

qy^d	He's set,	ny	Yeah,

qrr	or do you get into that,	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah .	sd	after he gained about eighty pounds after coming back from the Navy, she stopped doing it.

b	no kidding.	sd	And, the sticky buns, of course, would last, you know three or four days

sd	and my mother taught me how to make it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	If you make homemade bread,	b	Uh huh .

sv	It tastes so good.	aa	Uh huh,

ny	yeah.	sd	you just leave it out,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, and you let it spoil sort of.

sd	but I've never done it.	b	You know, yeah.

ba	That sounds pretty good.	aa	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd	But, it's the sort of thing where you let a portion of it go bad

sd	but you pinch off a portion, or save a portion of it for the next time, or something.	b	Yeah

qh	I don't know how safe that was .	aa	Yeah,

sv	that's got to kill anything I guess,	b	Okay,

fc	Plano.	fc	Where?

fc	Plano, in Texas.	fc	Plano,

fc	Are you in Texas?	fc	No,

fc	gosh it sounds so close.	fc	Yeah,

fc	I thought for sure you were in Dallas or something.	fc	Yeah,

fc^r	yeah.	fc	I think that's why they call me because they want to get people outside the state, you know.

fc	that's where we went.	fc	really.

fc^r	yeah.	fc^m	Yeah

fc	you did,	fc	but I grew up right here in Falls Church, right outside D C.

fc	It's nice over there.	fc	Yeah,

fc	really.	fc	Yeah,

fc	so we decided we'll try in a couple of years,	fc	Yeah,

fc	you probably could,	fc	Well Northern Virginia.

fc	well it's good talking to you.	fc	Nice talking to you too.

fc	Take care.	fc	Bye, bye,

b	Yeah.	sd	we'd go every weekend.

b	All right .	sd	But we haven't done l , whole lot of it lately.

sd	I'm, kind of a sailor.	b	Yeah.

sd	I was kind of into it for a while there.	qy	Were you sailboating?

ny^r	Yeah	b^m	Yeah.

sd	I had a little sail,	sd	Well, we don't get to do a whole lot of that up here .

b	No .	sd	Just motorboat's all we,

qw	What part of Texas you from?	sd	Nacogdoches.

qw	whereabouts is that?	sd	That's between Houston and Dallas.

bk	all right.	sd	It's the oldest town in Texas.

bh	Is that right?	ny	Yeah.

ba	that's pretty wild.	sd	We have, Lake Sam Rayburn out here and Lake Nacogdoches,

bf	so you got some lakes around you can do that on.	aa	Yeah.

qy^d	You do skiing and stuff	ny	Yeah,

bh	Yeah?	sd	Just got through snow skiing .

bh	Yeah?	ny^m	Yeah.

b	All right.	sd^e	Just came back from Denver

sd	the snow up here is really kind of starting to melt now.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I didn't see any boats there, though.

sd	but, no, I have, I had a boat last summer that I took out, a catamaran that I did a lot of sailing on and stuff.	bh	Yeah?

sd	they're kind of into it.	sd	all we have up here mostly bass boats.

qy^g	I guess fishing's a pretty big thing,	ny	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	lot of fishing going on up here.

qy	Is that centrally located	qy	you ever heard of Lufkin?

qw	what major city is nearby?	sd	Houston.

qr	and that's south or north of there or something?	^h	Let me see,

bk	Okay.	sd	Dallas is south.

qy	does that stay pretty constant there	ng	it's gets cold at night, and then warm in the afternoons.

bh	Yeah?	sd	Probably eighties in the afternoon.

qy	have you done, any other boating then	nn	No,

bh	Yeah?	sd	And when I was in high school, we used to go boating every day just about.

ba	that's great.	sd	And we had a different boat every day.

sd	I'd go to work,	sd	I'd like to do some sailing.

sd	like those catamarans are pretty fast.	aa	Yeah,

sd	my family's pretty into it	b	Yeah.

sd	and, I took sailing lessons when I was about six	qy	Is it pretty easy?

sd^e	it's kind of a thing where you get the hang of it after a while, you know, just kind of get a feel for the wind and how it works and the physics behind it.	b	Yeah.

sv	but some people are more motorboaters, you know which is fine.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, then, again, m , they may never have tried anything like, catamaran	b	Uh huh.

sd	they get so fast, you know.	sd	I didn't know that.

sd	they get pretty quick,	ba	That that would be something.

sd	I work with a guy right now that, races catamarans in the summertime	b	Uh huh.

sd	He's got a good,	qw	what lake do you all use?

nd	Well, he's from Detroit	b	Uh huh.

sd	so that's a good thing.	b	Yeah.

qw	yeah, so, what do you do for a job?	sd	I build transformers.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

qy	is that for T I	nn	No,

qy	Are they primarily electronic, then?	ny	Yeah.

bk	Okay.	sd	they have a, you know, worldwide,

b	Right.	sd	all we do here is make transformers electronics and stuff like that.

qo	how do you like it down there in Texas?	sd	It's real nice.

bh	Yeah?	sd	Been here all my life.

ba	no doubt.	b	Yeah.

sd	I've been to Oklahoma,	sd	Oklahoma's nothing like it.

qy^d	I'm guessing you probably do.	ng	I don't have one in my home here.

bk	I see.	sd	And my in laws also have one,

b	Right.	sd	They're in Richardson.

qw	And what kinds of things do you use it for when you go houses to them?	sd	usually, word processing something, such as, forms for things,

b	Yeah.	sd	also I have a nine year old that I've been home schooling for the last three years.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I have a sister in law who works in the Fort Worth school district.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so she got me copies of, several of the Apple programs for school programs,

b	Yeah.	sd	and so we use those

b	sure.	sd	my husband has used the one at his folks house for mostly business things. his resume, his, letter,

b	Yeah.	sd	he's been applying for jobs and things, that type of thing. forms for his photography business, and that kind of thing.

sv	well, I tell you once you get used to having them you get spoiled really quickly.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we're hoping that they can put together something for us here that we can have the word processing, here .

b	Yeah.	sd	But, they're kind of old older

b	Right.	sd	so I'm not sure that we'll be able to get too many other programs for it.

sd	and, when I was first here in Dallas or in Plano, this is, been like fourteen years ago we moved here. And I was finally able to afford a new typewriter, and I got an I B M Selectric. I thought I had died and gone to heaven because , I thought, they're so wonderful.	sd	I have one of those.

sd	and, boy once that happened, there was just no way that I could ever go back to doing anything of length of the typewriter.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so I learned that on there too,

qy	do you use WordPerfect ever? Have you ever used WordPerfect?	ng	I haven't.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's the one that's on my father in law's computer.

b	Right.	sd	He's got on I B M.

sv	That's probably where you've used it.	sd	so that's the program that they're using there.

sd	It may be improved by now	sd	That's what I've heard.

sv	some of the commands just had nothing to do with, you know, what they, what they did on the computer	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean like going, forward and backward a word or up and down a line that sort of thing just, you know, didn't match with the kinds of keys, you were using.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and it does a lot of things too that if you do any kind of, research or anything like that where you have to, use footnotes, it is just wonderful. Because it keeps track of all your footnotes.	ba	that's neat.

sd	and if you put a footnote in the middle, you know, if you come up with some new piece of documentation and you put that in the middle of your paper and have to footnote it, it just automatically changes all your footnoting numbers for you.	ba	how wonderful.

sv	But I think, it's a nice kind of way to be spoiled .	b	Yeah.

qy^d	so, unless you have some other things you want to talk about as having to do with P C s.	ng	Not too much.

sd	and he was an engineer. so I did tech writing for a number of years.	ad	Excuse me.

aa	sure.	t3	Go on and talk to Daddy about it .

qy^g	Got a problem,	sd	Daddy came home and found her playing with the telephone that I had unplugged .

qy^g	Trying to figure out what all that was about, .	ny	Yeah.

sd	but, now all of the sc , scholastic majors though,	b	Yeah.

sd	so I'm real spoiled.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	and they just talked the other day about setting something up again

b	Yeah.	sd	My nine year old I've decided to teach her how to type using the computer,

ba	That's great.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	 %	I've,

sv	and, you know, the, and it seems like it's getting earlier and earlier with the children.	aa	That's right.

sv	So, I think that that would be a real, advantage to her to have that and, do it early,	b	Uh huh.

ba	neat.	sd	and I wanted her to put it into the computer, and then print it out and, make a book with it, you know.

ba	great.	sd	And so I decided well, if she's going to do that, it would be a whole lot easier if she could type .

b	Right .	sd	So we'll slowly learn just to type here and then then put the story in.

fc	This is really going to be fun I think,	fc	Yeah.

sd	this is really ironic that I would get this subject today because just yesterday our dog ran away .	ba	no.

sd	And it's just been tearing me up all day .	ba	I bet.

sd	So this is just really strange .	aa	I guess so.

sd	but he's always stayed right here you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so this is just really strange, you know because,	qw	What kind of a dog is he?

sd	I always forget .	b	Yeah.

sd	Australian shepherd.	bk	Oh,

sv	I don't know that he could really get killed that easily because he is so big.	b	Yeah.

h	You know, but, I don't know .	sd	well, I hope he comes back,

sd	I do, too .	qw	How long have you had him?

sd	about two years.	ba	that's tough.

fe	gosh, anyway,	b	Yeah,

qh	isn't that funny how we do?	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah .	sv	And, it's kind of pleasant.

sv	Well, they're companions,	aa	Yeah,

qy	Well, do you have any?	ny	Yes,

qw	How do they get along together?	sd	Pretty good.

sv	and they're friends, you know.	aa	That's right.

sv	and they love you right back	ba	That's right.

aa	No.	sv	They just love you, unconditionally.

aa	I know.	sv	It's wonderful.

sd	this is just so hard.	aa	I know it has to be.

sd	He's never been gone for, at all	b	Uh huh,

sd	you know, he's just always been right there when he gets out.	b	Oh.

sd	You know, it's the first time he's ever been gone like this .	ba	that's really too bad,

h	So I don't know.	sd	Well, I'll, I hope you'll find him.

sd(^q)	they told us like at the Humane Society and the adoption center, you know, don't give up hope, you know,	qy	Well, have you put any posters up or anything like that?

sd	We've got so many when he was a puppy ,	b	Uh huh,

sd	We have him on film, you know, on the video camera .	b	Uh huh,

sd	You know, but you can't put that on the ,	aa	No,

h	you know, so , So, I don't know,	ba	dear.

sd	we will put Some posters and stuff up .	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	so that helps, too, you know, if they can keep,	^2	They can keep their eyes open,

b^m	yeah,	sv	That will help.

sd	I think that, if he gets out he'll come back.	b	Yeah.

x	,	b	Yeah,

sd	and I would get this kind of a call .	aa	Yeah,

sd	it's very strange	sd	You know, I know sometimes our cat will stay out all night,

sv	they're so small	b	Yeah.

sv	and, you know, they can get hurt a lot easier.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, they can get hurt a lot easier, you know,	b	Yeah,

sv	so that would make you really, tend to worry about them , you know, if they're not right there	b	Yeah.

bh	Is that right?	sd	cats are really almost more territorial than dogs are.

sd	I guess I really don't know cats that well because my mother never liked them,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I never had them growing up,	b	Yeah.

sd	so I've never owned one , you know, since I,	sd	Well, they're really a lot different than dogs because they're very independent,

sv	and they'll put their head underneath your hand, you know.	b	Yeah,

sv	and, most dogs do that.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I mean, you know, they know exactly how to get that attention, you know,	aa	They sure do.

sv	and they put your, you know	b	Yeah.

sv	or they'll rub their head against you, you know .	qy	Now, do you keep him indoors most of the time other than to go outs ,

sd	and then we get home at night we do bring him in.	qy	You have a fenced yard or,

ny	Uh huh,	b^m	Uh huh.

sd	That's why we couldn't understand why he would want to get out , you know, because he's had all this room to run in,	b	Yeah.

sd	He dug a hole under the fence.	ba	boy.

sd	and, you know, we filled it back up put him back in there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He did it again	b	Uh huh.

sd	so we chained him up	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, but we really didn't want to keep him chained up because, you know, we feel like that's just too restricting for him.	b	Right,

sd	So, we, we put dirt in the hole and then put some chicken wire around it, you know, so that he couldn't get out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, he kind of ripped through the chicken wire .	bk	Oh.

sd	I mean, we have two kids, you know, that just love him a lot,	b	Yeah,

sd	we just couldn't,	sv	Well, you know, that, animals are like that.

sv	I don't think it's anything we did .	aa	No.

sd	Least I hope not .	aa	No.

sd	I think that's what really bothers me the most about it .	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I don't know if it's quite hit them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have two girls,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	but now it's like, well if he doesn't come home, can we get another dog .	b	yeah,

^q	and you already want to replace him .	qw	What's his name,

sd	Buddy.	qy^m	Buddy?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	that's was our cat's name that, that died.

bh	Is that right ?	ny	yeah.

bk	Oh .	sd	we were really into that when we got him going to the Ranger games,

ba	That's funny.	sd	But, he was a good cat, too.

b	Yeah.	sd	and I feel real guilty because we had him, like, for six years

b	Oh.	sd	And I just felt so bad,

sd	I didn't know that.	sd	and if they don't have their booster, any kind of saliva or anything from another cat, if they get in a fight it automatically, like,

sd	I had no idea.	b	Oh.

sd	I did not know that.	b	Oh.

b^m	Okay.	qw	what's your most recent one that you've seen?

nd	I haven't been to a movie theater in probably eight or nine months,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I rent probably four or five movies a week.	b	Really,

qy^d	AIR AMERICA	nn	No,

qy	Have you seen WILD ORCHID?	nn	No,

qy	do you like, steamy movies .	nn	no,

qo	what type of movies do you like?	sd	action .

bk	Okay.	sd	And those are like two of my most favorite,

qrr	or do you like, just action	ny	yeah,

sd@	JAGGED EDGE was a suspenseful one. Or, FATAL ATTRACTION.	bk	Okay,

sd	well I hope I don't run across them.	b	Really,

qw	What was your favorite all time movie?	^h	gosh, I can't think off my head.

sd	I have to say that probably the one movie that really threw me back the most, that I was really the most in shock with was probably, STAR WARS.	b	yeah,

sd	When that first came out, I really did not expect the special effects or anything like that.	b	Right.

sd	I was ready to go back and see it again, you know	b	Really.

sd	Now, I also liked, GONE WITH THE WIND or some of the classic, like THE LAWRENCE OF ARABIA	sd	See, I've never seen that.

bh	you haven't?	nn	No,

ny	yeah.	qy	Should I go rent it tomorrow .

sd	and it's got a good historical perspective to it.	sd	That's probably something I need to see right now because I'm taking history in school .

b	yeah.	sd@	So it'd probably be a good thing for me to see. Oh.

sd	And it's about Al Capone's brothers. Primarily one of his brothers,	b	really.

sd	Al Capone had three brothers,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, he turns out to be a law man.	bh	Really.

sd^e	it's really interesting	sv	you just gave it away,

sd	I just gave away just enough to get you interested .	ba	That does sound good,

sd^e	it is.	bk	Okay,

sd	And, a lot of times, what I wind up doing is, picking say an actor or an actress, and seeing like all,	b	Yeah.

sd	I've seen all of James Dean's movies. all of Mae West's movies.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess you could do that, you know, get all of David Carradine's movies, or, Segal,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can't remember his first name.	qy^g	it's not David is it?

sd	he was on, Arsenio, just recently.	sd	I don't watch that .

sd	It was really kind of interesting because, Arsenio was asking him about, what he thought of, one of the other action guys.	b	Really.

sd	But I like all the RAMBO movies.	sd	see, that's, that's one side of the action I guess that I didn't really care for

b	Yeah.	sv	I don't think he's really a very good actor.

^q	Yo, Adrian .	ba	Hey that's pretty good.

sd	we actually rent, probably a good combination of movies with the exception of horror films.	b	Oh.

sd	Don't watch really very many horror films at all.	b	Yeah,

sd	there's something about people coming up through the sofa to get you, or something, you know, coming out of the T V that just doesn't make my day, you know.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	and so many of them are done so poorly,

b	Yeah.	sv	you know it just doesn't even give you the effect,

sd	I just saw, a really interesting movie called, FLATLINERS.	sd	that was one of my favorites,

b	Yeah.	sd	I was really impressed with that one.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, and it was done so well, you know,

sd	You know, I mean, and it's not like there's a lot of scientific data on it.	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	it's not my all time favorite movie

b	Yeah.	qy^d	And, I don't know if you like this kind,

aa	that was a great movie.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, but it was really good.

qy	have you seen SHRIMP ON THE BARBY ?	nn	No,

b	ye , yeah,	qy^d	It must have, what's his name in it.

nn	No.	bk^m	No

nn	No.	b	Really.

qy	Hogan?	ny	Yeah,

nn	No,	nn^m	No,

sd^e	it's got, Cheech Marin .	qy^d	really, that must be pretty good then,

sd	it's kind of a poor man's PRETTY WOMAN in reverse.	bk	Oh .

qy	Actually did you see DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS?	ny	Yes,

sd	I enjoyed that.	aa	Yeah,

sd^e	I haven't.	ad	you've got to see that one,

sd	I hear that's the one that you really need to see at the theater instead of home video .	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	I was really glad when it won all those awards because it really deserved it.

sd	It's from DANCES WITH WOLVES.	bh	Really.

sd	he happens to be, a friend of one of her business associates. or, not a friend, a cousin.	ba	wow, that's impressive.

sd	so we've got to, try to get out there and see that one.	aa	yeah,

qy	Now did you see, DRIVING MISS DAISY?	ny	Yeah,

bk	Okay.	sv	You know, I guess it was okay,

qw	so what kind of cars are you looking at?	sd	Well, we've, we've test driven the Oldsmobile Delta Eighty eight and a Cutlass Supreme and a used Cadillac, about three or four years old because, I get married in a couple of weeks

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I have two kids

b	Uh huh.	sd	so we need a car that's big enough for six.

b	Yeah .	sd	And so I guess it was two weekends ago, we went, car shopping and looked around.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We found something interesting at Crest Oldsmobile Cadillac up there on Central Expressway

b	Uh huh.	sd	that, in addition to getting a new car there, they can get you a car that's new

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, they call this program cars,

sd	In fact my dad recently got a Pontiac, believe six thousand	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he got a demo.	b	Okay.

sd	And it's been a real good car	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's like new	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it only had very low mileage on it.	b	Sure.

sv	Of course, they're fully loaded usually.	b	yeah.

sv	So I think it's a pretty good option.	aa	Yeah,

qy	are they new .	na	Well, the ones that we were test driving were the new ones there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well now, they may be the demonstrator models that the sales reps drive around in.

qy^d	And then the Cadillac is definitely a used car	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	The guy said it'd been on the lot about thirty minutes.

ba	Oh no .	sv	Those things go fast.

b	Uh huh.	sd	of course we can't consider getting a brand new Cadillac, because those are twenty five to thirty thousand dollars.

b	Yeah.	sv	But when they're three years old they're,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So then it becomes, more realistic.

sd	That's what I'm thinking about on my next car is do I want to get another brand new car because last two cars are brand new	b	Uh huh.

qh	or do I look for a used car that's maybe three years old that but that's, you know, low mileage and in good shape.	b	Yeah.

qh	or , or is something wrong with it	aa	That's right.

sv	but I guess that's a risk you have to take.	aa	That's right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but if you've narrowed it down to one or two you can have the car, checked at, an independent service station and have them go through it from top to bottom and tell you if they can find anything wrong, because they don't have any financial interest in it.

b	Right.	sv	And then you'll have a realistic assessment of what you're getting.

qy	do you know?	sd	I'm thinking around twenty or twenty five dollars.

ba	that's not bad.	aa	No,

sv	It'd be well worth it if you're considering buying a car . to find out.	aa	I would think so.

sd	Well, it's kind of hard for me to talk about buying cars because I just got mine paid off about a month ago,	qy	Isn't that a good feeling.

sd	I just want to enjoy not having any car payments for a while and enjoy watching my savings account get larger and, you know, hang on to the one I've got for a few years because it's, it's almost four years old,	aa	That's right.

sd	I have a Mazda R X seven.	ad	Well, what you can do is take your car payment and put it in the bank for three or four years

aa	Uh huh.	ad	and when you're ready to get another car just pay cash for it.

sd	I just about could really because I think my car,	b	Yeah.

sv	if I continue taking good care of it, it's going to hold a pretty good resale value	b	yeah.

sv	and, if I consider going the used car route and save up some money, I shouldn't have too much trouble at all.	aa	Yeah,

ad	Could you hold on for just a moment?	aa	Sure.

sd^c	I didn't want to interfere with whatever they're trying to record.	aa	Right,

sd	and I do want to hold onto it and you know, enjoy it while it's not having any mechanical problems whatsoever,	aa	That's right.

sd	in fact it never has	aa	That's right.

sd	and I want to hang on to it while it's still being a good car and while I'm not tired of it and while I'm single and can handle a two seater for now and get that out of my system.	b	Yeah.

sv	Because one of these days I'll be getting a six seater probably too.	aa	Eventually.

b	Uh huh.	sd	The first car I kept for thirteen and a half years and got a hundred and sixty one thousand out of it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	The second car I ever bought I drive to work now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that's kind of in the way I've done things is to get things that are new and then keep them forever.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, my car is using two quarts of oil a week now.

ba	my gosh .	sd	about a quart every hundred miles.

ba	no.	sd	but, it runs fine,

b	Yeah.	sd	If I just keep the oil in, it seems to be okay.

qw	What kind of car is it?	sd	It's a Buick Century.

qy	Are you going to trade it in on this new one	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so she's going to get some money for that and take some money from the bank and then try to make as much down payment as possible to keep the monthly payment low.

sd	So she's going to sell it rather than trade it in.	b	Yeah.

sv	That's probably the best thing.	sv	You lose four to six hundred dollars a trade in.

sv	Or maybe more than that, as I've learned.	bh	really.

sd	Well I turned around and sold it myself for forty two hundred.	ba	there you go.

sv	but they just, are going to give you that much less for your trade in.	ba	that's fact.

sd	What I think.	aa	I think you're right.

sd	But strangely enough, I mean, the best bargaining I had made with a dealer on my car was also the same place I got the best price trade in,	ba	Interesting.

sd	plus I was going through that T I fleet discount program.	b	Okay,

nd	Well, it's before they had that.	bk	okay.

sd	and they had a little file where they said which dealers participated in the fleet program,	aa	That's right,

sd	and what you could expect, they said, you know, a five percent over cost and then options at cost and everything.	b	Right.

sd	So, I figured out a price based on that.	b	Yeah,

sd	But I guess I got a pretty good deal, because I went back to the Town North Mazda right off Central and offered them the same price as what I knew I was going to be able to get it for in Arlington	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and they said there is no way you can get this car for that price, especially if we add on the equalizer and the cruise control.	b	Yeah.

sd	they took the car, I knew they were going to pull it from Town North because that's where the white one was.	b	Is that right.

sd	So it was that same car.	ba	My gosh.

^q	well, unless you're selling car with hail damage and flood damage , I got the car off your lot for that price .	qy^d	And you laughed all the way to the bank.

sd	And I laughed real hard when I took it in for the two thousand mile checkup	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he recognized me.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I'm sure he probably knew what was going on the very next day	b	Yeah.

sd	of course, when the place in Arlington went and took the car because I told him there's a place in Arlington that's going to give it to me for that price.	aa	That's right.

sd(^q)	He said, No they're not.	b	Yeah.

sv	So I'm sure he knew .	ba	Such a deal.

sd	and I just had the biggest grin on my face.	ba	I'll bet you did.

sd	It was kind of nice.	fc	Well, Dana, it's been really interesting,

fc	Good talking to you too, Don.	fc	Okay

fc	good luck in your car hunting.	fc	Thank you much.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

sv	I guess my initial view is our tax burden hasn't gone down in recent years despite tax cuts	b	Uh huh.

sv	I take the view that cutting income tax rates has been good for the economy, that most other countries have a higher share of the tax burden in various kinds of sales taxes, energy taxes, particularly, and that to the extent we need to raise more taxes, that's the direction we should look.	aa	Right.

aa^m	Where's it all going?	sv	and we have such a huge, national deficit,

sd	Well, one, one of the big tax that has gone up a lot in this year is the social security tax which in principle is going into a big trust fund,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and Senator Moynihan's, proposal to, to cut there I think makes a lot of sense.	ar	I'm sorry,

sv	I think Senator Moynihan's proposal to cut the social security tax which isn't really going to beef up, up the social security program could make a lot of sense.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know that the tax there is extremely high, much higher than we pay here,

sd	I think Japan is probably about equal to ours	b	Uh huh.

sd	Our friends were amazed that the cost of things when they went to Canada not so long ago.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, as a whole, most other countries have a higher level of cradle to grave government services,	b	Right.

sv	they're real trade offs there.	aa	Right.

sd^e	I'm at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. part of the Commerce Department. Here in Gaithersburg, Maryland.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I didn't pick it,	b	you didn't.

sd	but I certainly have the feeling I've been given topics different from the ones that I mentioned before.	b	did you.

sd^e	when you place a call topic is given to you.	sd	I didn't know that.

ad	you should try it.	sd	I didn't realize that .

sv	one thing that has kept our tax burden high, and this will change somewhat in the next few years is the level of the defense budget	aa	Exactly.

sv	But, I believe Israel does that, don't they for their,	aa	yes,

sv	Wel , everybody has to do something.	b	Yeah,

sd	Or maybe theirs is, in fact, one year of military service for everyone.	aa	Yeah,

b	Okay.	sv	and I don't know that that's really what we're talking about.

sv	and then, country would benefit from one year from everybody and even out the, requirement.	aa	Yeah,

ba	Well, now that's a thought.	sv	you know, it could even be done while they're doing another job, while they're doing, you know, a job to make money.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think the family would have to be involved in it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And people would have to be convinced that, you know,

aa	right.	sv	And that's not the kind of society we have right now.

sv	it quickly would be significant industry in figuring out how to get around it where people,	sv	There's lots and lots of volunteer programs

b	Yeah.	sv	younger people feel like it's not open to them,

sv	it's just that they, are more self centered if you will and not considering, a voluntary ,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	But some high schools have actually started like a visitation program to, you know, areas economically, say less advantaged areas.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, they promote service on the part of the kids to, some of those people.

sv	and I think we need to try to figure out some way to turn that around that everybody,	sv	it's really unfortunate because when you do,

b	Yeah.	sv	it's really a gift to yourself

b	Yeah.	sv	and maybe that's why we have so many people in society who are not really happy, you know.

am	Well, that could be.	sv	Because if you concentrate all of your energies and efforts on yourself, you're just kind of down the tube, you know .

aa	right.	sv	it really is better to give then to receive.

sd	and, I guess, looking back on it, I tend to think it was mostly a mistake.	b	Uh huh.

sd	On the other hand, the more I learn about the history, the more I see it was incremental, decisions. Any one of which was sort of understandable at the time.	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about you?	sd	Well, I, I was just, in high school I guess when it ended.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I was in the last lottery.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I was glad it was over by then.

b	Right.	sd	I've never really totally understood what our purpose was over there.

b	Yeah.	sd	I work with several that were over there,

sv	I guess you'd have to call them great men in some sense.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, with their nations pretty solidly behind each one of them.	b	Yeah.

sv	Otherwise they'd get you someplace else.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and as you say, going halfway was probably worse than, committing to a completely and, winning it, whatever that would mean.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah .	sv	I mean the other wars seemed like a valiant war. I mean they seemed like a valiant thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	you knew who was good.

b	Yeah.	sd	And it was a the traditional battle of, kind of good versus evil, you know whichever way it is.

aa	yeah.	sd	and the Cambodians weren't even supposed to be involved.

sd	that pendulum started to swing, maybe even too far. To the point where, supporting a government decision in foreign policy was sort of optional from the Vietnam war on.	b	Yeah.

sd	this Desert Storm stuff may have, killed it.	b	Yeah. .

sv	Well, what I believe is one of the major things that is wrong with our public school system is that, we do not have enough discipline	b	Uh huh.

sv	and the parents do not let the teachers discipline the children the way that they need to be disciplined right now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	when I went to school, I know I was scared to death about being disciplined,	bh	You were?

sd	and the discipline that my daughter receives now in going to school is just totally different.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, you did not see, I did not see anybody in my classrooms, when I was going to school, act up the way that kids do these days in the classroom.	b	Yeah.

aa^r	that's right.	qw	What, grade is your daughter in?

sd	my daughter's in the, fourth grade	b	Uh huh,

sd	and, there's children in her classroom that just totally disrupt the classroom, where the teacher cannot teach	b	Uh huh,

sd	and when I went to school that just wasn't put up with.	aa	no,

sv	Well, they just don't do that any more.	aa	I know.

sv	But the school system's afraid of getting sued and, all sorts of lawsuits I'm sure because of things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and we still don't have enough money towards put in toward public school.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	And, I think that if we had enough money and paid the teachers a little bit more, that maybe that could solve some of our problems.	aa	Yeah.

sv	and you know, we'll just have to wait and see whether that's approved or not.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think in some ways that they need to be more careful of the teachers that they hire.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have heard stories, from other parents that I know of, their children are in high school that teachers are out there giving drugs and selling drugs,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've heard some horrible stories about high school teachers	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, to be more careful of the teachers that we place in our school.	b	Uh huh.

sv	with what they have to work with, I think they're doing a pretty good job right now.	aa	I do too,

b	Uh huh,	qh	But, then, what do I know,

qy@	You don't have any children in school? Don't have any kids.	ng	I don't have any kids.

qy^d	so this is probably a real hard subject for you.	ny	yeah .

fc	It was a joy in talking with you.	fc	Well, it was good talking to you too.

fc	thanks.	fc	We'll see you,

ad	why don't you go ahead first and tell what kind of car you'd look for in your next.	sd	I think I would like something like a, an economy car that gets really good mileage and, one that's really reliable.

qy^d	And, of course, it has to have air conditioning .	na	absolutely,

qy	Does it have to be a special color? .	na	I would think kind of a subdued color would be nice.

qy^g	It sounds like something your husband would drive, right? .	ny	Yeah,

sd	but that made it better economically,	sd	I think that's something we might want, too, is some kind of standard transmission at least rather than automatic.

sd	It wouldn't be a used car,	sd	I think we would want one that, even though it was a compact car or whatever that it would still be nice enough that, you could take someone in it and not be embarrassed .

qrr	or doesn't really matter.	na	well probably, probably that would be a good idea,

sv	it's hard for people to get in with a two door sometimes.	aa	That's right.

qy^g	It would be fun just to win one, wouldn't it ?	ny	Yes,

fc	well, I think that's all that we need to say.	fc	Well, thank you for calling.

fc	we'll talk to you later.	fc	All right.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

sd	so, I was able to get that back pretty easily.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you?	ng	I haven't had to.

b	Right .	sd	most of the time pretty careful shopping anyway, I get pretty good stuff.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think that, aside from the fact all markets being internationalized

aa	Right	sv	and if you want to buy American , it takes real extra work to find.

aa	Exactly.	sv	It's probably a Japanese or a Burmese company owning and hiring people in the U S .

sd	They were talking about cars, the car issue just came out. And about how, yeah, you'd like to buy an American car maybe	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, you know, the transmission may be made in Japan or whatever.	b	Yeah.

qh	You know, so it's like, what are you going to do, you know?	aa	Yeah,

sv	and, you know, they should start making quality products.	aa	Yeah,

sd	That's what I thought, too, until I saw the CONSUMER REPORTS issue.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they're pieces of junk.	aa	I know.

sd	that's eighty six through ninety one.	ba	Wow.

sv	maybe they're starting to get a clue.	sd	Well, they got a three year lead time.

sv	Technology that comes in right now is probably not going to be implemented until, you know, quite a few years down the road.	sv	The computer industry's where it's really dynamic especially for the consumer.

sv	because technology is so, you know, volatile and changing all the time.	qh	And can you think of any other industry where in software they,

b	Yeah.	sv(^q)	Or, maybe I say, well, you know, you paid five hundred bucks for this program, so send us twenty and we'll give you a really great upgrade.

sv	and that's a real good thing, I guess.	b	Yeah.

h	I don't know.	sv	And well, I mean, all the chips that make up the hardware are a commodity

sv(^q)	and you're like, gee, they're reselling a MacIntosh under a different name.	aa	Really,

b	Yeah, you know.	sv	They'd sell more if they were honest.

sv	and I really don't see an advantage of Windows at all.	sv	Yeah, it it's only an advantage for people who had to use pure D O S. base.

sd	but, I really don't do much with it at home	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	you sound like you must, work in the computer business.	ny	Yeah,

bh	Yeah?	sd	But, technically, I'm not actually in the industry.

bh	No?	sd	I'm an abuser.

ba	Well, that's all right.	sv	But it's sort of like surfing on the wave of future shock to you know, keep up with the changes as they happen.

sd	let's take the example, the modem for, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	I imagine in Argentina you've got some great foods.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we got what some people call the best beef in the world.

b	Yes.	sd	So it's, Bishu ,

sd	I've had that meal in New York, where they bring you a plank, sort of, with all this wonderful beef parts of beef, cooked and barbecued	b	Yeah.

sd	I have to find a place around here that has that.	sd	Well, they have an Argentinean place down in Georgetown.

qy	You serve that yourself, or for a family?	br	Excuse me?

qy	You ever serve that yourself when you have company?	nn	no,

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	and like somebody says okay, when are we having this, you know,

b	Oh.	sd	You know, like you have to prepare the fire, and then put the sausages on,

qy^d	you don't go buy it from a wholesaler.	nn	No,

sd	so I know.	sd	And so they got the meat place.

b	Yeah.	sd	And so you just go there

qw	what other, what dishes do you serve with it?	sd	Well, basically, it's, what we call it impenadas which is, like,

^2	the stuffed turnover.	aa	Right,

sd	I love those,	sd	And, then we also put sausages on a bun,

b	Yeah.	sd	And then what you have is also you know, like three different kinds of salad.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that's about it.

qy	Do you remember when you were in Washington, Sam the Argentine baker?	nn	no.

sd	I guess, in the early seventies.	bk	okay.

sd	so that's before your time.	b	Yeah.

sv	Your parents might remember if they were here then.	ar	No,

sd	We used to get the most marvelous impenadas and other Argentine things.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm Italian.	qy	Are you?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	And being Argentinean we also have a lot of pasta.

sd	Because there're many Italians in Argentina.	b	Yeah,

sd	my grandfather came to the United States through Argentina.	b	okay.

sd	This was around the turn of the century. actually a little bit later, like nineteen twelve, nineteen thirteen.	b	Yeah,

sd	My husband is Chinese.	b	Okay.

sd	and we both love Continental cooking, French cooking.	b	Okay.

sd	we don't usually mix.	b	Right.

sd	well, if we're entertaining we'll do a Chinese recipe	b@	Right . * slash error Yeah. / * slash error should be 'b'

sd	you can steam many of the things in a microwave.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	I don't know if you have one.	ny	Yeah.

sd	And if you like Chinese food, you can take filet of fish and put a little bit of soy sauce and a little bit of sesame oil on top of it and chop some scallions and a little ginger and just cover it with some, waxed paper and steam it just until the fish is done,	b	Okay.

sd	and it's a wonderful flavorful piece of fish.	qy	Is it?

ny	Yeah.	sd	it's like, when you go buy fish, you know

b	Uh huh.	sd	well like I buy like the fish

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've seen, you know, the filet.

ad	buy a fresh filet of fish, a nice one at the fish counter.	qw	What kind of fish?

sd	Sole is good, flounder	b	Okay.

sd	sole or flounder is real good. And even grouper.	sd	So we put soy sauce and sesame.

sd	Little bit of soy sauce and sesame seed oil.	b	Okay.

sd	some chopped up you know, slivers of scallions. And slivers of ginger. And then just cover it and put it in the microwave for just say two minutes, check it after two minutes to see if the fish flakes.	b	Okay.

ad	Don't overcook it though.	b	Okay,

ad	Well, you see, just check it, you know, during,	b	Yeah.

qy	it's that sweet Chinese sauce?	nn	No,

sd	Well if you go in a Chinese store ask for hoi sin, H O I S I N.	ad	Wait, wait, wait, H, / * three?

sd	H O I ,	b^m	H O I,

sd	S I N, or S E N	b^m	S I N,

sd	And if you take, little pieces of pork and you fry them, like little cubes of pork. And you fry them with garlic and a couple dashes of hot pepper and then mix some hoi sin sauce with sherry, just a little sherry to thin it, and stir that in. You can even put a spoon of ketchup in,	b	Okay.

sd	and that makes a great pork dish with a sort of a spicy sweet sauce, that you can serve over rice.	qw	how much pork do you buy for two people.

sd	but if you're serving another dish with it, say the rice dish well, with guys pretty healthy appetites, I'd probably go a third of a pound	b	Right.

sd	And you can always heat it up again, and save, you know.	sd	So, it's just, since I'm from Argentina, I just love meat.

sd	You can also do the same thing if you have ground beef.	b	Okay.

sd	Use the same hoi sin sauce and some of the frozen mixed vegetables.	b	Okay.

sd	and you've got a very colorful side, another dish.	qw	And how much does it cost?

qy	the hoi sin sauce?	ny	Yeah.

sd	a dollar twenty nine a can.	b	okay.

sd	A can would serve you for, you know, for quite a few, meals, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's one of the Chinese cooking basics.	b	okay.

fc	well listen, it was good talking with you.	fc	Same here.

fc	Hope you enjoy your recipe.	fc	All right.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sv	and you got to divide it two different categories whether you live in the city or whether you live in a more rural place like I do.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, public school all the way up kindergarten all the way up to, high school.	bk	Okay,

sd	I am.	bk	Okay.

sd	and they can't do that.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean our high school up here is like a junior college in Florida	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, I'd been in a parochial school before junior high

b	Yeah.	sd	So, you know, I like the concept they've got now where they have more directed education, you know,

sd	Like they have that down there that,	sd	Well, they talk about it

sv	there's no reason that you should take college prep courses when you can get some general business courses in high school.	aa	Right.

sd	and we had a vocational, electronics in our high school.	b	Right,

sd	So when I went to my first year of tech school, I had a very easy time because our high school had a good program.	b	Right.

sv	I find that that the, that in the cities, it's more like the kids go there socialize not really to learn	aa	Right.

sv	but if don't work with them as a parent, I think you're putting your child at a big disadvantage.	b	Yeah,

sv	So, it's got a lot to do with economics in the area that you come from.	aa	Yeah,

qy	are they going to move to, Mexico?	no	I don't know about that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I'm wondering if that's going to have any effect, you know, on what you see now.

sv	if the industry comes hopefully they'll promote good schools.	b	Yeah.

sv	plus for the type of student that's going to that school, it's going to raise the level of the school because your parents are engineers or chemists.	b	Right.

sv	They're going to help you.	sv	You hope.

h	So, I don't know.	sv	I guess you just have to wonder,

sv	Actually, I think it should be the city level and a system level really to find out, and to see what they need and not overinflate it,	qr	what do you advocate, more taxes or better management of what they got?

sv	like, if the teachers are getting six percent raises every year when people in industry have been getting cut back, and you're getting raises every eighteen months you got to go now, hey, wait a minute,	b	Yeah .

sd(^q)	People are going, whoa.	b	Yeah.

sd	and the only school you could go to was the Baptist school or the Catholic school	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah	sv	You, have to learn,

sd	See, this isn't a subject that I think a lot about because I'm never faced with it because our school system in Vermont, it seems to do a really good job.	sd	the only reason I asked about secondary schools or, you know, advanced education is because down here, you know, going to the University of Texas, the education I'm getting I think is kind of shoddy for a public school.

bh	Is it?	sd	I don't think I'm getting what I should,

b	Well,	h	I don't know,

qw	So what movies have you seen lately?	sd	Well, lately I've seen SOAP DISH.

bk	Oh.	sd	and that was a lot of fun.

sd	that's on my list to see.	b	Yeah,

b	okay.	sd	I saw THELMA AND LOUISE. A couple of days ago, and really liked that.

bh	did you?	sd	Actually I saw it twice because I liked it so much.

sd	See that's also on my list.	sd	And it's really disturbing but a good movie.

qo	how do you mean?	^h	let's see.

b	Right.	sd	But it's with women in it instead of men

bh	A switcheroo,	sd	And it made me think a lot about, you know,

sv	When the shoe is on the other foot and see how it,	sd	So, that was kind of interesting.

sd	and, you know, the girlfriends just taking off for a day or something. Just getting in trouble and probably not that much trouble	aa	Yeah,

b	yeah.	sd	They had started out with that,

sd	Before we found the shopping malls that's what we did.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, I'll have to keep that on my list then.	b	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	It's TRUTH OR DARE

b^m	Scandalous?	ny	Yeah,

ba	I can imagine.	sd	And so it was interesting .

sv	I guess she does it for the social value of showing you what trash is,	b	Righ ,

sv	You had to wade through it and find it .	aa	Right.

sv	You never quite got to,	sv	I thought that was pushing it a little bit

sv	All I know about that woman is that she's an incredible marketeer .	aa	She is.

aa^m	and she's rich	sv	she's smart at what she does.

qy^g	She knows how to twist this around,	ny	Yeah.

sd	I just adored it.	bh	Really?

sd	and, so, } you know, just the general theme of the whole movie was, pretty,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean I really liked it a lot.	b	Right.

sv	and I only bring up WOUNDED KNEE because that was what ten years ago you read and understood, you know, about the Indian population,	b	Right.

sv	and then everything went away for a couple years,	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, you know, it's sort of a popular view of, what happened way back then.	b	Right.

h	Really I don't kn ,	aa	I know,

sd	and the other one was, vegetarian kind of, you know, feel good tribe. You know, sort of thing,	b	Right .

sv	so there possibly were because you know you always have conflict in the world.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Nobody can get along peacefully .	aa	Yeah,

b	I see.	sv	you know, you didn't, hear any press about that.

b	Yeah.	sv	I thought it was a very interesting movie.

sd	I have come to respect a little bit more you know, what went on here,	b	Right.

qh	but who knows how it's supposed to all end .	aa	Uh huh .

sv	I think about, you know, just the meaning of, the freedom of this country and what that really meant.	b	Right.

sv	And that was taking over somebody else's freedoms. And sort of trampling that	b	Uh huh.

sv	I got a little sick of his mug on the screen every, three minutes,	aa	I know the ,

sv	I just thought it was a really interesting, intense film.	ba	Well, that's good.

sv	Intense I think is the word for it because three hours went by really fast.	ba	that was, it was, it was good.

sd	Ate a lot of popcorn.	sd	But it put me in a really bad mood,

bh	Did it really?	ny	Yeah,

bf	It made you think.	sd	we were grouchy.

sv	but there are no answers, you know.	aa	I know

sv	that can make you crabby, yes.	sd	We were not responsible,

sv	they sort of candy coated the western story for many years,	b	Right.

sv	it always balances out one way or the other once you get the whole story	b	Uh huh.

qy@	Have you seen any other movies? Because you sound like you see a lot.	aa	Righ ,

bk	okay.	sd	don't have a job

ba	there you go .	sd	I rented a good movie, called CINEMA PARADESO which is an Italian movie which is probably the best movie I've seen ever.

b	Oh.	sd	It was just, wonderful.

bh	Really?	sd	It's, uh, story about a little boy in a little Italian village,

b	Oh.	sd	I mean, if you don't mind reading subtitles,

sd	I'll have to write that down.	sd	That was a great one.

qy	Are you into, Larry McMurtry?	nn^e	No, I had , I hadn't.

b	Yeah.	qy	Did you like it?

sd	I read a lot of Larry McMurtry books	b	Right.

sd	It's like very peculiar circumstances and very peculiar things that people do with each other	b	Uh huh.

qw	What kind of painting are you planning to do?	nd	Well I have wallpaper in both of my bathrooms right now which is really pretty disgusting.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it's a rent house

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I've been buying some magazines and stuff and looking at different ways to paint.

sv	and you get some beautiful effects with them.	aa	Yeah.

sd	and then it had, a little bit darker sort of peachy color,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and in between there was a sort of a rust, put on very sparingly.	b	Ugh.

sd	And it gave the impression of very old weathered stucco.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I want something that's going to tie that together

ba	that should be nice.	bf	So it's going to have kind of a country look.

aa	Uh huh.	sd	and I haven't even decided as far as, what kind of paint to buy.

ad	I was about to say, you ought to experiment on at least a small part of it before you just tackle the whole thing .	aa	Yeah.

sv	Because you might find that it's beyond, what you're willing to put into it. Although I think it could turn out really nice.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I, never painted the outside.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and my job was mostly the woodwork.	bk	Okay,

sd	and I got to do all of the masking tape and then all of the little fine, trim work, where I'd use a small brush and, try to keep the paint from dripping on the windows and things like that .	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	I'm wondering if my bigger problem is getting the wallpaper taken down first. Because I think,

qr	Well I was going to ask if you planned to paint over it or try to strip it.	nn	No,

ad	I would not recommend that method.	aa	Okay.

sv	if if you can rent a steamer, if it's modern wallpaper it should come off without too much trouble.	sv	Well that's something that's worthwhile checking into then. 'Cause I,

sv	If it's really old, you don't know what it's put on with.	sd	it's hard to tell,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I know the house, was built around the mid fifties.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it may be the original wallpaper .

sv	If it's paper it will probably shred.	sd	in one bathroom it's probably paper,

sd	and then it had vivid, almost neon colors of hot pink and turquoise, and lime green and silver, and, a little bit of yellow that looked like coral sands and sea horses and things like that .	ba	that's kind of an odd color for a bathroom.

sd(^q)	and he said it's a good thing I went to the bathroom before dinner because if I had had something to drink and went in there I would think I was having hallucinations .	b	Really.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I'm not really quite sure,

ad	and if you discover you like it then you can always upscale.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Sure.	sd	It wouldn't be any kind of special effects type thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	It would be just plain paint.

sv	and it can be done a whole lot faster. And with rollers and, modern latex paints,	aa	okay.

sv	you can wash up easily because they're water soluble.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And then if you discover the little tricks and tips about, you know, how you get through corners and how you do trim and, how long to leave the masking tape down, because if you leave it too long and it dries it can flake when you pull it up.	sv	it peels the paint off when you take it off,

ad	You want it to get dry, but not, just real hard.	aa	Yeah,

ba	That's the problem.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I've heard from people who tried to get by and skimp on narrow masking tape that it was more trouble than it was worth. Because it rips as you pull it off for one thing	b	really,

ad	But use good, stuff and buy it at a paint store where they have the right brands, that will go down and come up easily.	aa	Okay.

sd	I'd hire a professional.	ad	if you were closer I'd, I'd tell you you could come over and supervise .

sv	I think that could give it a,	sv	Well, we'll see how it goes,

sv	If you don't like it all you do is put on another coat.	b	Yeah.

fc	I guess we'd better go because our time looks like it's about up.	fc	Yeah,

fc	bye bye.	fc	It's was nice talking to you Kathleen.

fc	Thank you.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qy	did you, have you grown up in Dallas, Stephanie?	nn	no

qw	where are you from?	sd	I grew up most of my childhood in Germany.

b^m	In Germany.	sd	we took a lot of vacations while we were there because everything was within driving distance.

sd	Now there's a place I'd like to visit .	sd	So we travelled all over Europe. when I was very young. Unfortunately, a little bit too young to really appreciate.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I was grade school age.

sd	and so we've seen lots of pictures of the beautiful, spots and, areas,	sd	That, that would be to me, a really nice vacation because I'm not in physical shape for something like that, but, I sure would work on it , if I had an opportunity like that.

qo	What kind of vacations do you like?	sd	well my husband and I are scuba divers.

bk	H ,	sd	So, we both like to go to dive resorts.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we dove there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, we weren't able to get enough people together for the trip.

b	Yeah.	sd	and we couldn't get enough people together, to go,

b	Yeah.	sd	We were going to get a really good price.

sd	when our children were younger, we lived up in, New York, or New Jersey and, and } used to like, traveling into upstate New York and camping	b	Uh huh.

sd	Little bit of, , water skiing.	^2	Snorkeling?

sd	But, not much of, of anything else.	sd	Well, my husband and I both like water,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so any vacation that we go on is usually, close to the ocean, or something like that.

sd	It's really, they had, a really nice beach areas there.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I lived there for seven years.

b	I see.	sd	 and I really enjoyed that because, you know, the mountains were real close,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we like the white mountains

b	Yeah.	sd	I went skiing once.

sd	you could, you could drive within twenty minutes to an hour and just be at a real nice vacation spot where you could sail and just really,	b	Uh huh.

qy^g	Not so much,	ng	not really so much.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but we never have really planned a vacation around, places to go hiking.

qy^d	So your next, your plans are try to find someplace to scuba dive.	ny	Yeah.

qy	You have any children?	nn	No,

sd	we had little children all the time,	b	Yeah.

sv	so some of the things are not quite as, adaptable.	aa	Yeah,

sv	You have to try to figure out kinds of things that you can do that they will enjoy, too,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, maybe fifteen even.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, we go wherever somebody is, that we haven't seen for a while .	b	Uh huh.

sd	we just came back from, Grand Rapids where we saw one of our sons graduate, with his Master's Degree in social work	b@	 Uh huh.

sd	and the summer we have a, a reunion in Salt Lake area up by Park Cities. Where we're going to camp for a week with as many members of a rather large reunion group as we can get together	ba	that sounds like a lot of fun.

b	Yeah.	sd	that there were several hundred, people

sd	I guess my favorite vacation idea would be to somehow figure out something kind of mobile where you could stop and sleep maybe, you know, like a, a small camper.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I hate them because they're hard to jockey around, you know,	sd	or something like the Volkswagen Vanagon. I've heard is really nice.

sv	but you wouldn't want to do it all the time.	b	Yeah.

sd	I would just love to just drive through the United States and stop and see people I know, and visit for a day and then go on and, you know.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	he's retired

b	Uh huh.	sd	he's in his sixties,

sv	I think, I think that would real,	sd	just see, see the rest of the country.

sd	and I would like to maybe not take great long trips, but have your home base, where your home is and then just travel out for, like, maybe, a month, maybe go,	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	but he's been known to be gone for a month or two at a time

sv	interesting things to	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	we took a trip, around to the, Civil War battle grounds and things back in nineteen sixty when it was the centennial or something,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, so we were ready to look up the places we read about.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and then eventually, when we have kids,

b	Yeah.	sd	Now, his folks did a lot of traveling across country.

sv	Well, now, camping is fun with kids.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, but when they get a little bigger they can help,	b	Yeah.

sv	Very restful.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I find the outdoors very relaxing and, you know, kind of a change.	sd	As long as I have a shower nearby, I'm fine . And electricity.

sd	I need my creature comforts, too.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, it was great to talk to you.	fc	It was nice talking to you, too, Beth.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Okay.

qo	Well, what do you think in terms of, benefits?	sv	of course I'm sure we're familiar with the exact same benefit package

ny	Absolutely.	qy	isn't it great?

sd	You know, I was thinking about, importance of benefits and that kind of thing, other than salary while I was waiting for, the system to find a respondent.	b	Uh huh

sv	and I suspect that that's probably true for everyone.	b	Yeah.

sd	and the retirement is more important.	ba	I had never really thought of it that way

na	I think they have, one that we need to recognize that we're going to have to supplement ourselves.	b	Yeah.

sd	And that's certainly one of the reasons that I'm sure that they've begun the, CODA Plan.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's certainly a supplemental way,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I suppose b , maybe in your instance, if you're started with T I in your early to mid twenties, and happen to stay with them until you're sixty five, then you'll have a very good retirement plan.	b	Right.

sd	But I had another career first and then came to T I a little later.	b	Uh huh.

sd	all by itself it won't be adequate for, for my situation.	sd	It's not going to build up, quite enough,

sd	So, I have to find a way to supplement that.	b	Yeah.

ba	I understand though,	b	Yeah.

sd	believe me, I do that myself.	bh	Do you?

sd	I don't think it's the worst investment, in the world.	bh	Do you really not?

sd	and maybe you don't start looking for that word guaranteed, until later.	b	Yeah.

sv	it's shown a history that, sure beats anything else. Over many, many years.	aa	Yeah,

ba	I understand, that approach.	b	Yeah.

sd	That's, what, that's exactly what's happening in my family.	b	Yeah,

^q	all this is going to do is give you a little spending money while you're there.	b	Uh huh.

^q	You better make sure that you've got a scholarship.	aa	That's right.

sd(^q)	I have an eleven year old daughter now who's saying, gee, Dad, I want to be an allergist,	ba	goodness.

^q	Let, me explain to you how you get scholarships to do that.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, then } her little brother's only two years behind	ba	Exactly.

^q	Let me explain to you how you get scholarships , to do that.	aa	That's right,

ba	Well, that's fantastic,	b	Yeah.

sv	and on whole I would say that they're equal to, most of our competitors.	bh	Think so?

sv	I can see some potential changes that probably are, would not cost very much but might, make things a little easier. Such as offering a smorgasbord. Having a larger variety of benefits	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	but, but here's the amount, that T I is going to pay for it,	b	Yeah.

sv	it's menu selection, so, to speak.	b	Right.

sv	Well, I could certainly, personally stand seeing them go to a standardized compensatory time for overtime.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I don't believe any of us would have to purchase any extra vacation days, if they did, that.	aa	true.

sv	or, you know, maybe they want to get generous and make it three to one. as a repayment for, every three to five days that I work overtime there, they should give me one day.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But it should be a standard and not left up to either the whim or the current overhead rate that's running in each department.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Well, that's for sure.	sv	Which is the same,

sv	I'm sure personalities always come into play.	b	Uh huh.

sv^t	Well this is a subject that you never think you'll be assigned to . One that kind of comes up when you've lost the others, other subjects.	aa	No .

sv	for the balloon festival here in Plano it was just gorgeous.	sd	I'm from Plano also.

sv	It couldn't have been better.	aa	That's right.

sv	so you dress up warm,	b	Right.

sd	That's the only thing wrong I can find with it.	sd	I just got back from Dayton.

ba	how fun.	sd	and the trees are changing color there.

sd	I miss that,	sd	as soon as we got out of the cloud cover.

b	Yeah.	sd	but as soon as the plane got through the clouds

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't complain weather wise though, because it was also thirty five degrees there yesterday morning,

b	Ooh.	sd	so it was nice to get off the plane where it was in the seventies.

sv	I guess you have to take some things and leave some things.	aa	That's right.

sd	and they're gorgeous	b	Yeah.

sd	you could spend every weekend of the fall going to a different area.	sd	We did that when we lived up in Michigan.

sv	it's kind of hazardous for driving	aa	Yes.

sd	We've only lived here a couple of years.	aa	I think it is,

sv	but then we're back to being warmer than normal this week, or last week,	sv	Just so we don't have one of those famous ice storms in the spring.

qy^d	I mean, nothing comparable, I guess, to what you've had before.	nd	Well, I've only been here just a short time, too,

aa	You're right.	sd	So, as I understand it here, if there's anything, they'll call off schools and close businesses.

sd	and no one can drive on ice.	b	Right.

sv	but then when you decided what ice was .	aa	Right,

fc	So, well, I think we've discussed it good enough today.	fc	I think so.

fc	It was, It was good talking to you.	fc	It was nice talking with you.

fc	Maybe we'll get the next time.	fc	Okay.

fc	Take care.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

sd	I live in the Florida in the winter and then go back up north in the summertime	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I, I guess I do watch, MCNEIL LEHRER on P B S because I lean to that coverage,	b	Uh huh.

sd	We seem to start dinner around six and finish it up.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's coverage, you know.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	And they seemed to have the best coverage.

sv	I think this is scandalous the way everybody's picking on him.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think he reported what he saw	b	Yeah.

sv	and if you didn't like it, that was just too bad, you know.	sv	Well, I know that the coverage he was allowed to present was slanted,

sd	or, I, I also subscribe to something called WORLD PRESS, which is a magazine that only talks about other, excerpts from the WORLD PRESS,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's not as slanted as the NEW YORK TIMES or as biased perhaps as the local paper.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I also listen to, these twenty four hour news stations, when I'm driving.	b	Yeah,

qr	are you from Southern or Northern California?	sd	Northern.

qw	is that, what is that,	sd	Palo Alto.

qy	the San Francisco paper out there is, the major paper?	sv	it's horrible.

ba	and that's a terrible paper.	sv	The San Francisco paper is just wretched.

qy	Is that pretty good?	^h	Palo Alto is about midway between.

qy^g	what is that, the CHRONICLE isn't it?	ny	Yeah,

bk	Oh.	sd	but they're, both run by the same peo ,

sd	they really are probably the worse papers I've ever read.	sv	They're just horrid

qy^g	That's a pretty decent paper isn't it	na	we can,

b	Yeah.	sd	So we subscribe to the NEW YORK TIMES and the WALL STREET JOURNAL and MERCURY NEWS.

sd	not as in depth as I used to, because their articles seem to be getting even longer and longer	b	Yes,

sd	I feel pretty well versed in what I'm doing because I do spend more time on that than I do, say, on sports, although I watch that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I find it very exciting for the coverage we have now, today.	aa	Yes

sv	If anything, I think they list ,	sv	We almost have too much.

sv	actually, I think they slant things	sd	Well, I cannot stand Dan Rather.

ba	wow!	sd	And I hated him then.

bh	Yeah?	sd	And I would not watch that man for money.

b	Yeah.	sd	And he and Barbara Walters just really turn my stomach.

b	Yeah,	sd	So I watch Peter Jennings, and, and Tom Brokaw. Sort of alternately.

sd	if it said that. I feel I'm well enough equipped.	qy	Do we get enough news or something like that?

ny	Yeah.	qy	Do we get, do we get the news that we want?

b	Yeah.	sv	And I do.

sv	I think yo , you got to segregate some of it.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, that's about all I have to say .	fc	Okay,

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

o	Okay.	b^m	Okay,

sd	but they're teenagers	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I have three children, ages fifteen, seventeen and twenty	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I guess about when the youngest one was in kindergarten I started working at a preschool and, you know, doing some work,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so so I am around, not a day care situation, but you know, in the child care environment	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	when my children were growing up, up and until they were in the preschool situation, I had them in a home with a lady who kept two or three kids,

b	Yeah.	sd	It was important to me

aa	Yes.	sv	and, I feel like that they had that one on one that's so necessary at that age.

aa	it is.	sv	However in today's environment it may be more critical to have the ability to interact in large groups, simply because that's the way our young people are dealt with.

bf	in other words, there're more people,	sv	They're dealt with, in packages.

sd	seeing the children in the school the way I do, I mean, I see the ones that, we can always tell the ones that have not been around children at all when they come in as three year olds as opposed to the ones that have been in the program, that started at twelve months maybe, and were were even in there one day a week which is all our school provides for the, you know for the under three year olds	b	Uh huh.

sv	but still they have an opportunity to be with other children	aa	Absolutely,

sv	but I think that would, but as far as looking for a place, you know, the criteria, I mean, I think it's very important to have very caring people, you know to take care of the,	aa	absolutely

sv	in a school if you're going to have the structure and you're going to have the large numbers, you're going to need really,	b	Uh huh.

b^r	yes,	sv	however, when it came to hiring and staffing people who cared and who were willing to take care of those children and spend that kind of time, the pay is minimal

aa	it is.	sv	and it takes people with total and complete dedication who really don't want to make a living for themselves in order to be in that environment,

sv	that maybe have another salary in their family where they can do that,	aa	Absolutely,

sd	and that's what I had the opportunity of, you know, doing	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I could concentrate on the creativity, and you know, really having a lot of fun with the children and and providing, them with a great atmosphere,	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	They are to be there ahead of time, you know,

sv	And they have to be there at sometimes six o'clock in the morning.	aa	That's right.

aa^r	that's true.	sd	And, she just had a terrible time keeping sincerely dedicated people simply because they could not live with a kind of hours and the salary.

sv	because people can't pay to provide and,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so we don't have the expenses of a building, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we don't have enough	b	Sure.

sd	you know, taking care of a whole building and that responsibility.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, it is a lot different.	sd	Well, I know that when my youngsters were small,

ba	my goodness.	sd	and, my younger son went into child care at six weeks.

b^m	yeah,	sd	So, they were in that environment actually, up until they became, seven and nine.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And at that point I said, Look they have been given the custodial care that they need,

aa	Yes,	sd	So I quit working after my kids started to school and got involved in volunteer work in their private school so that I could help direct their learning experiences and their development.

b^r	yeah.	sd	I felt like that anybody who cared and loved the kids could change their diapers and feed them and bathe them and hold them.

aa^r	yes,	sd	But when time came to direct their ability to make choices to develop the kinds of things that they're going to need to interact with other people, I felt like I needed some strong influence there.

sv	I mean a lot of people do it really the reverse and go to work after the children are in school, you know.	aa	I know.

aa	that's true.	sd	and I was just really grateful I only had one bad child care experience.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she was going back home,

b	Yeah.	sd	so I had to find a new place

b	Yeah.	sd	and I put them in this home,

ba	dear,	sd	they were always cranky and irritable

ba	dear,	sd	so I just took off and went there one day,

ba	how awful,	sd	and, so it didn't take me long to take them out of that place

b	Yeah.	sd	but, that's the only bad experience I had,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I was very pleased with their development and their progress.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They learned a lot of things in those public environments that you just as soon they didn't learn,

b^r	yeah.	sd	and it did appear to me that the people who cared for them had a good concern for them,

aa	yes,	sd	however, my older son came home

ba	dear.	ba	boy,

aa	Yes.	sd(^q)	and Well, she said, you know, kids do exaggerate,

sd	and the crime here is pretty bad .	nd	Well, Rome is pretty small .

sd	I was going to say.	sd	we hear a lot about, New York City.

b	Uh huh.	sd	There is a lot of crime down there.

qy	Have you ever been there?	nn	No,

qy	are you in college right now?	nn	No.

bk	okay.	sd	So, there is a base up here.

qy	Are bases safe, you know?	sd	Bases are pretty safe because they check your I D on your way in.

bf	they, minimize the access.	aa	Right.

sd	but it is pretty scary.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, people put bars on their windows in certain neighborhoods	b	Yeah.

sv	But they are still bars .	sv	That makes it bad for getting out during a fire.

sd	so I do not know you know, what can be done.	h	I do not, I do not know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I went home,

b	Yeah.	sd	and this thing came on where a group of like five or six guys went and filmed themselves beating up people in the street and robbing them.

b	Oh.	sd	And it was really disgusting.

sd	when she was jogging in Central Park, a couple of years ago?	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	They were young men.

sv	That is really stra .	aa	I know it.

sd	and they still can't catch them .	b	Yeah.

sd	in a small town in Wisconsin, near Madison, a young boy somehow got a hold of a shotgun. And killed his parents and his three brothers and sisters.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he had not, displayed any tendencies deviant or disturbed or whatever, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	And you are thinking to yourself,	qh	I wonder where,

aa	I know.	h	I do not know.

sv	I just do not think a lot of parents are that involved any more.	aa	Yeah.

sd	And, you know. It was sort of like there were boundaries.	aa	definitely.

sv	And I do not know, I think today a lot of parents, are ruled by their kids.	aa	I think so definitely.

sd	It is an attitude like the world owes them something.	aa	Yep.

bh	Do you?	ny	yeah.

qy	Are you in the Air Force?	na	I am in the Air Force.

bk	Okay.	sd	And so, people outside the Air Force doing engineering get paid a lot more than we do.

b	Sure.	sd(^q)	And so all the young engineers are like, well, I am just, going, you know,

b	Huh.	^q	get it for all it is worth.

b	Right.	sd(^q)	and I am like, you are the one who signed up.

sv	And the Air Force is one of the better supposedly m , m , military experiences.	aa	Yep,

br	Pardon me?	sd	I like it so far.

sd	but, I do not talk to many people in the military.	^h	Oh.

sd	And you see these guys standing there watching you jump around in your leotards.	b	Yeah.

sv	or where they are at, you know.	aa	Yeah.

sd	And it is about seven hours.	b	Huh uh.

sv	That is a very, very neat town to visit. in terms of the French Quarter and all of the things you hear about.	b	Uh huh.

sd	How to carry your wallet,	b	Uh huh.

ny	yeah.	sd	I would hate to be there during Mardi Gras.

sd	She had been dating a fellow for several weeks.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They went back to her dorm room	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	But I just looked at the picture and thought, what a world.	aa	I know .

sd	I mean, I do not,	sv	You can't trust anybody.

sd	I do not have any, cure,	sv	it is really scary.

sd	everybody wants your business kind of thing.	b	Right.

sd	I mean, I basically have started not to trust anybody in general street smarts.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	But I just said, Howard,	b	Uh huh.

fe	my God.	sv	Well, you, hear about people opening the door and getting blown away.

sv	You should not deny yourself going to visit and all that.	b	Uh huh.

qy	are you from Boston?	ny	Yeah.

sd	Home Owners Savings and Loan in Boston.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I mean, I never felt any safer there than I did in any other city I have been in, you know.	b	Right.

sv	Do not deny yourself the New York bu , experience, but go with people that you know.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I am not real big on guns myself.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then they are out doing it again.	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, you know, you just hear about that, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it is a lot of repeat crime.

sv	I mean, people that may have been close to the edge just go over because they see something or read something.	sd	that it is more, like in Boston,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So they picked on this kid who was like new in town.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And they were like, well, no one was going to miss him anyway, you know,

ba	god.	ba	that is horrible.

sv	You know, it is just, I think kids get too much too fast. And all those sort of things.	b	Yeah.

sd	In Atlanta, where my inlaws live, they had that thing, you know, the high top sneakers, the Air Jordans, et cetera.	b	Right.

sd	Kids killing each other and beating their brains out.	qy^d	for the sneakers.

sd	or the jackets, the team like the Raiders and the caps.	b	Yeah.

sd	That is probably one of the most bizarre I have heard of.	b	Yeah.

sd	Where they videotape themselves.	aa	Yeah.

sv	You probably, more up on this subject than I am,	b	Right.

aa	You bet.	sv	And, I think that that is, you know, very significant that the percentage of the work force today consists of such a high percent of women.

sd	in the last half of dozen years I see more and more women traveling.	b	Right.

sd	and, you know, it's a credit to them as far as how they're doing things.	aa	Yeah,

aa	You bet.	sd	You know, I go to a, I have a club that I belong to on Tuesday that,

ba	That's sort of neat.	sv	So that's a, I think that's a change

sv	and they're doing the same, or carrying the same job responsibility	b	Right.

sv	and it shouldn't be that way. You know.	aa	No.

sv	I hope so,	sv	It's been changing,

aa	Absolutely.	sv(^q)	And you hear some people say, you know,

sv	a woman Congressman I'm sure makes as much as a man Congressman and the same as a senator or whatever.	b	Right.

sd	you see, more and more ladies of all ages with briefcases and in their business suits and and going.	^2	And going,

sv	in the future it's even going to be, more noticeable and more significant.	aa	Right.

ba	Wow.	sv	The man is looking in the engine

ba	Good point.	sv	And if they're out there buying that many cars, then there's that many out that are self sufficient and, you know, mobile and working.

sd	and hers was the only income we had for three or four months	b	Right.

sd	and she still works everyday	aa	Yeah,

aa	You bet.	sd	I just happen to be off today.

b	Uh oh.	sd	I work, too.

qw	What kind of work do you do?	sd	I'm a nurse.

ba	Well, good.	sd	And I work at Medical Treatment Center, which is at Jupiter and Arapaho.

qy^d	Married?	nn	No.

sd^t	Well, trying to think what else I can say in regards to this subject.	h	I don't know,

qy^d	You see the old, cigarette ads, you know, about you've come a long way.	qy^m	You've come a long way baby?

na	right,	b	Right.

qy	Have you had that experience recently?	ng	I can't really say recently.

b	yeah.	sd	but I found that, it was made of some material which actually ended up rusting after,

b	Oh.	sd	even, despite, you know, diligent washing, it got rusty after about, three weeks of use.

sd	Well, I don't have so much trouble with products as service.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've had a few answering machines over the last two years just because I've had a lot of trouble with them working correctly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I'm not convinced that any of them work a hundred percent.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the one I have now is okay, most of the time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it's a very good company. That sells sterling silver things	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she has a charm bracelet with lots of charms on it, a lot of money into it by now	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and they said this was just obviously yanked.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean they were so rude about it.	b	Right.

^q	so do it anyway.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I felt that this was a company that should have been more reliable	b	Uh huh.

sd	I didn't even know the person's name that had given me the hard time or anything	b	Uh huh.

sd	They might work on that, you know.	b	Right,

sv	Service is more of a problem.	sd	up here in the northeast, well w , we have these mail order companies like L L Bean

ba	Really.	sd	I mean I've, I, I have friends and family who order from them because you can I've heard stories where you can literally buy something from them one year, wear it for a year and a half,

ba	That's really great.	sd	I guess if you call any eight hundred number, if, you can call up any eight hundred number directory assistance, you can get, the eight hundred number of the customer service support line for a number of companies.

b	Huh.	sd	like the customer is always right

sv	I don't think most places are like that anymore.	sv	Well I guess nowadays with the economy the way it is, I guess,

sv	Well, on this subject of invasion of privacy, yes, it's very easy for anybody to find out about you.	sd	Well, I don't really like that very much.

sd	the special on channel thirteen that was broadcast, I think, last week or so ago, it detailed how this one person went about finding out from this particular person his home mortgage, how much he pays for it, what his payments are, his, Social Security number, driver's license, any kind of records he may have. their credit card and the status of their credit.	qw	What was the reason why somebody was trying to find out all that stuff?

sd	It was just as a demonstration to show those who were watching it how easily obtainable information is on any single person.	bk	Oh.

sd	mostly it dealt with, marketing companies, these, direct marketing, associations.	b	yeah.

sd	And they're able to do that through all the manipulations of the computer.	ba	Well, that's not really good.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Something that I feel is a, pretty much an invasion of privacy is something that's really so common that it's accepted as the norm now, is the open office concept.

qy^m	The open office?	ny	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	sd	and people have little cubicles.

sv	Not insofar as maybe making conversation with somebody, I suppose, because you can easily be overheard	b	Right.

sv	I suppose any items that you have laying out can be easily seen.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah,	sv	and it's not just that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I work in a situation like that

qy	Do you work with, mixed company, male and female	ny	yeah.

sv	I suppose it depends on who you're working for and where at.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, I guess we're changing ever so rapidly in the devices of communications that anything can be obtained from anybody's record,	b	Yeah.

sv	and it appears in front of them,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I know the government sells information to private companies about individuals or families.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it shouldn't be that way I don't think.	aa	Yeah,

^h	I'll tell you that.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, I don't see anything like that to occur unless everybody bands together to do that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But it's hard to define a lot of those boundaries.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well, they take my name, which is a very common name,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they check that name against, their list

qy	So you've received a lot of, flack?	no	they don't even check my Social Security number.

b	Uh huh.	sd	then, you know, to get it removed they say, well, you know, you have to write this long detailed letter and everything like that to them, you know,

b	Uh huh.	^q	You messed it up,

qy	Is that usually what you tell them in the letter?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	like, recently I was reported as having J C Penney accounts

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	So then they can call the credit bureau and say, hey, you know, we're paying you good money to report this properly

ba	Good idea.	sd	So that's what I've taken to doing lately,

qy	any other problems?	ng	Not that I can think of.

fc	I'm clouding up right now.	fc	yeah,

fc	Well, it's nice talking to you.	fc	Okay.

fc	Maybe again.	fc	All rightie.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

sv	but, I guess I would say it's not easy to find what most parents would want.	sd	Well I can profit by this because I'm due with my first in about three months.

sv	You'd like to get it from some good cutthroat capitalist company but not with child care.	aa	I guess not,

sv	For profit places, I would really look at them awfully carefully	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I felt confident that they'd do right.	b	Uh huh.

qy^h@	you mean, learning type, yeah ? I mean actual experiments they would have to get your permission.	ny	Yes.

sv	pretty good people .	sd	Well, the thing I really worry about is, the sexual abuse cases you read about.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I mean you'd just feel awful if something like that happened.

sd	so, I never really worried too much about that the case with my boys.	b	Uh huh.

sv	you know, I think those things get into the headlines immediately when somebody finds out about them	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't think it's as common as, the newspapers would make you believe .	b	Uh huh.

aa	I mean that,	sd	I know so many of my friends I went to school with who are having babies right now

sd	and, so I would always trust her judgment on that.	sd	Well I'm just thanking heaven.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he just got a new job.

ad	so, yeah, do it as long you can .	aa	I suppose.

sv	and you have to get a feel for, how they treat the kids and, what kind of staff members they have and how much turnover they have and things like that before you commit your child to them.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and if they're at all queasy about that then I'd look elsewhere, yeah.	^2	You have to start wondering if they don't want you.

qy	You have other friends that have kids, being taken care of in, child care?	na	I have one

sv	But, I really think the news reports tend to sensationalize the problems.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think the problems are more ones of cost and resources and, pay and exhaustion and , you know, things like that, rather than these, really wild abuse cases that you read about because it make good copy.	aa	This is true.

b	Yeah.	sv	CURRENT AFFAIR can , get several shows child cases.

qo	So, what do you think about child care .	sd	well, my feelings on it is, I wouldn't take a child to day care . You know?

b	Right.	sd	just a baby sitter in a home.

qy^d	Just because of the,	sv	Well, too many kids and I think too many infections and things coming in.

sv	they seem to pass a lot of,	aa	Yeah,

sv	you kind of wonder whether or not,	aa	Yeah,

sd	it was a preschool day care type of thing.	b	uh huh.

sv	I think the ratio of kids to teacher is really important.	aa	yeah,

sd	so that was probably my own fault that she didn't,	bk	Oh.

sd	and, I didn't notice it until this summer when I was working with her that she would bend her wrist all the way, not in a natural form.	bh	she did?

sd	she was holding her pencil in the right fingers and stuff.	^2	Wrapping her arm all the way around.

aa	Yes.	b	Yeah.

sd	like I said, I didn't notice it till then. Because I hadn't worked with writing letters or anything and stuff like that.	b	Oh.

sd^e	They never,	qrr^d	Or just never said anything.

sd	my main reason for taking her was, just social skills more than anything else.	b	Yeah.

sd	just, I didn't feel like she was mature enough socially	b	Yeah.

sv	but I think it's hard to take kids to somebody you don't know or unless you have awfully good references. Reliable, people,	aa	Yeah,

sv	it's so hard to take young kids anywhere for very long.	sv	Well, I think it's hard to leave them,

sv	and they usually adapt pretty well.	b	Yeah.

sv	and you know if they're upset and that type of a deal.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and you haven't got anything done	b	yeah.

^q	what am I going to fix for supper .	aa	yeah,

^q	is this important what I'm doing	aa	Yeah,

aa	No.	sv	That's for sure.

^q	are they driving the baby sitter crazy	aa	Uh huh,

sd	Our community doesn't really have any organized recycling drive.	qw	Where do you live?

sd	I live in San Antonio.	ba^m	San Antonio!

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well, I live in Garland

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, as far as, trash pick up and stuff that a lot of the communities are doing, they're testing that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, they're really not full force into it,

sd	and there was discussion for a while about, building a garbage burning, electric generation plant	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it just wasn't cost effective, at the time.	b	Oh.

sd	I recycle my newspapers and, my aluminum stuff.	aa	Right,

sd	it's not very convenient to do.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	aa	Yeah,

ny	Yes.	sd	And I really like that because that makes it real convenient because they're in almost every shopping center,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I started doing that at work.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's really helped a lot,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I really like that,

b	Yeah.	sd	At work we started, all the recycling stuff.

b	Yes.	sd	And, that really, started a lot of stuff off,

sd	where I work now we recycle all the computer paper.	ba	That's good.

sd	But that's about the extent of it.	ba	at least your trying something.

aa^r	yeah,	sv	it would be nice if it could be more.

sv	And I'm sure that the, driving factor for recycling the computer paper is that we get paid to do so.	bh	do you really.

sd	We sell the paper back to a paper manufacturing company.	ba	Well that's a neat idea.

sv	not by much, but it does defray it some.	b	Right.

sv	Enough to make it worth our while to have several bins through out the building.	ba	Well that's really good,

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah

b	Yes.	sd(^q)	and I thought, I don't understand this, you know.

b	Yeah.	^q	We're trying to cut cost and everything like that, and recycle and all that stuff

sd	Not the cheap ones of course. And packed everything up and moved them and left them lying around,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're good boxes.	sd	That's exactly what I did.

sd	And they were just going to throw them away.	sd	Exactly what I did, exactly.

b	Yeah.	sd	Because I didn't want to waste that.

b	Huh uh.	sv	And it's hard enough to find good packing boxes .

sd	you can unfold them.	aa	Right.

sd	So, you know, they don't take up much storage space.	aa	Exactly right,

sd	I felt a little guilty about taking the boxes for about two seconds until I realized they would be thrown away,	aa	Right,

sd	I thought, well I was doing them a favor by taking them.	sd	I found about nine of them that had not even been folded into boxes, that were in the dumpsters.

b	Yeah.	fe	gosh,

sd	so you can't use it anyway.	aa	Right,

sd	and the real sturdy boxes that copy room paper comes in, with the nice lids. Those get thrown away.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And I am constantly scouting out the copy room for those boxes.	sd	That's exactly what I do.

sd	Those are perfect boxes to put files in.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I would buy some cheap wallpaper from somewhere and cover those nice boxes with the lids,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you can stack them up and leave them out and put things in them, even.	^2	And they look just as good.

aa	yeah.	sd	I think I'll have to try that.

sd	well, you know, it's cheaper than going and buying the kind at Target that are all ready with the little design on them or whatever.	sv	They're the exact same thing.

aa	yeah.	sd	You saved me some money.

aa	yeah.	ba	Well that's neat.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But ours are real hard to find.

sd	in fact I think there's two of them, that have several openings,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they have aluminum and newspaper and plastic and some other category,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it's real convenient just to chunk the newspapers in there.	ba	Well that's good.

b	Yeah.	sd	like at work we have two different trash cans at your desk.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but in the paper one you have to separate.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You can't throw any of that away

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I do get tired of having to separate paper, you know.

sv	I mean, you have to get so used to doing it that it's a habit.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And somebody was writing in complaining that the people had, dumped all the trash in the same bin.

b	Oh.	sd	And when they were questioned about it they said well, we're running late,

^2	And someone else isn't going to take the time to put it in two separate bags.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But luckily that will all get straightened out

fc	Well, I've enjoyed talking to you.	fc	You too.

fc	bye.	fc	Bye.

o	There we go.	b	Yeah.

sv	So. So I think we're a little ahead of schedule on that.	b	Yeah.

sd	but the break is over.	b	Yeah.

sd	now, the last couple of weekends have been nice and sunny.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I'd rather have a sunny weekend than a gray weekend.	aa	I go for that,

b	Yeah.	sd	In fact, I'm a little worried about this one coming up here.

sd	I haven't heard whether it's going to rain or not.	sd	I think there's an eighty percent chance this evening,

ba	Well, that's good.	sd	But I think the highs are going to be in the sixties, and the lows in the forties.

sd	but I think the average high should be about seventy.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, I like it when it's sort of a medium temperature, maybe seventy five to eighty, somewhere in there.

sv	And what that tells me, is that the summer weather is very predictable, that it doesn't vary very much.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I mean, any other time of year, that's not the case, because it could be very warm or very cold.	b	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they said that we had a freeze and some kind of bad weather. You know

b	Right.	sd	it wasn't just a super bad storm,

sd	One of the weirdest things I saw, I think it was around this time last year was a twenty six degree lightening storm.	ba	wow.

sd(^q)	And I thought, Well gee, I've never known it to lightening at that temperature.	aa	Yeah,

sd	The cold weather was just simply trapped along the ground and couldn't get away.	ba	Wow.

aa	Nope.	sd	I just don't move very well when it's that cold.

sv	Well, this has been interesting.	aa	Yeah, well.

sv	Not too challenging to the brain.	sv	not a real in depth topic, but enjoyed talking to you.

fc	well you have a good day.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qo	what do you think the major cause of air pollution or at least in the Boston areas,	sd	Well, the, the major cause it seems up here is exc ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but the major cause here, and we always seem to, and it seems to be validated by the press, is the car pollution.

b^r	yeah.	sd	car pollution seems to be the one and only thing that I can really put my finger on here.

sd	interestingly some of the information I've been reading indicates that the amount of air pollution from, airplanes is extraordinary.	bh	Is that so?

ny	Yeah,	sd	I didn't know that.

sv	and that's always something that, you know, you don't think about.	sv	Well, most people talk about the noise pollution from airplanes rather than the air pollution.

sv	apparently the air pollution and the fact that it's delivered right up in high altitudes is a very significant factor.	b	Yeah.

aa^r	Yeah.	b	No,

^2@	Society , has especially recently .	aa	Yeah,

qw	I mean you know what it's like here.	ny	yeah,

aa^r	yeah.	sv	and I guess refrigerators, are the same way.

sv	So, solutions to this, would be	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I guess the, to me the first thing is I wish society would get as upset about this as you do get, getting people upset about animal rights.	b	Yeah.

sv	if we can't send people to the moon, that we can't improve these things.	b	Yeah.

b	uh huh.	sd	And no lead gas came to the pumps.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that th , there are solutions,

sv	Well, and also to make it economically feasible. and also in buses.	aa	That's right.

qy^d	I don't know if you ever got caught in a traffic jam behind a bus,	ny	yeah, well,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	So, I guess you're better off sitting behind a bus than a car although I could never, really a , rationalize that while I was sitting there .

sv	but even, of course, in the longer term just to get away from fossil fuels.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I don't think, fossil fuels are the answer.	sd	right close to where I live is the Seabrook Nucleus site which is, practically a, you know, guerilla war up here, went on for years.

b	Yes	sd	my daughters marched against the Seabrook

sv	you don't throw the baby out with the bath water, and condemning nuclear use.	b	Yeah.

aa^r	yeah.	sv	So we really don't know whether there's enough fossil fuel left

sv	But with the pollution issue, fossil fuel is not the way to go anyway.	aa	No.

sv	so you've got to look elsewhere.	b	Yeah.

sd	one is already in college in New England,	b	Yeah.

sd	and we just feel that when we leave, this area, we're going north, not south.	b	Yes.

sd	and I also like the fresher air up there.	aa	That's right.

sd	So, I mean that's the way we will be going.	b	Yeah.

sd	so, i , I'd be interested in having spoken with somebody also from the far west on this issue to see how their attitudes are.	sd	Well, since Texas and Louisiana and, California in that ranking order, the worst pollutants in America.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I read that the other day.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And California seems to be taking steps,

b	yeah.	sv	But, again, that didn't occur without a crisis.

sv	I mean, even California was notorious for its smog years ago, before it even was an issue, out here.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Well, that's, that's person , that's personal air pollution .	sv	that was its most personal, personal, pollution that I can think of.

fc	And let's hope there are other people that feel the same way .	fc	something happen.

fc	You're welcome.	fc	Bye bye.

na	I do .	bh	You do?

qo	what do you think about them?	sv	I think they get a lot of people in trouble.

sd	and, I just got it about six months ago	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I find that it makes it a lot easier to get things that you generally wouldn't get .	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I got in trouble when I was in the service quite a few years ago like ten to fifteen thousand dollars in trouble.

ba	my goodness.	sd	you know, so I eventually got it all paid.

sd	I made a rule with myself when I got one that if I couldn't pay it in full every month that I'd have to rip it up,	b	Yeah.

aa	Yeah,	sd	But I know a lot of people that get in trouble with them especially, you know

sd	And they they can't do anything but work to try to pay them off.	b	Yeah.

sd	and she only earns like two hundred dollars a month because she's going to school.	ba	Gee.

sd	I guess you have to pay like twenty dollars each month is the	aa	Yes,

sd	so all she's paying is interest on hers every month.	b	Yeah.

sv	It just seems crazy to me	sd	Well, my wife got in trouble one time with hers.

b	Yeah.	sd	So and that was before we got married,

bh	really?	sd	That's the first thing he wanted.

qy	Was a Visa card?	ny	Yeah.

ba	my goodness.	sd^e	So we kind of discussed that a little bit and shot that idea down right quick.

sd	I'm about sick of mine right now.	sv	But I think they're too readily accessible

b	Uh huh.	sv	and there's too many companies out there that are willing to give them to you and get you trapped.

b	Right.	sd	And you know, we had all the necessities,

sd	They are against it .	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't think they like the fact that I have one either.	sv	I think if cards were as stringent as say a home mortgage loan or something like that where you have to, you know, be able to prove that you can afford this and the rest of your bills, we probably wouldn't have the problems we have.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Of course, we wouldn't have the retail market we have either

b	Yeah.	sd	I disagree with it,

sd	I'm twenty right now.	bh	Are you?

sd	So, just going to school and working	b	All right.

sd	and I needed a pair of shoes	b	Oh.

sd	so I just went out and bought them on my credit card.	b	Yeah.

qy	So do you just have two kids	sd	we have a eighteen year old, seventeen year old, and a seven year old.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I'm from Plano, Texas.	bh	are you?

sd	But right now I'm out in Provo, Utah going to B Y U	qy	you're a Mormon then?

ny	Yep .	bk	all right .

sv^t	But, this is a extra long one.	qw	What's that?

sv^t	They're giving us a lot of time .	b	yeah.

qy^t	Have you done a lot of this?	na^t	fifteen or twenty I guess.

bh	really?	ny	yeah.

qy^t	Do you do it every day?	na^t	I try to every day.

qo	What kind of eating out do you enjoy?	b	Okay.

b	Right .	sd	But, I'm a divorced woman.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, when we dine out we go to like medium priced restaurants.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think it's sort of a waste of money to go to a real high priced restaurant.

qr	Do you go like home cooking, like Black Eyed Pea and that kind of thing or cafeteria?	ng	n , Not really.

sd	We do the same.	b	Yeah.

qw	What are your favorite places?	sd	well, I like Chinese food.

b	Uh huh.	sd	there's a little place down on, what is that? Coit Road, Chinese Pavilion or something. That is really good

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I like it.

sd	and we think that was real good	b	Uh huh.

sd	but our favorite when you have a little more to spend, is to go to Taiwan or May Dragon.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They're really a nice place you could take someone to eat.	b	Right.

sd	It's not the rinky Chinese decorations	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it's a very elegant nice place to eat.	b	Uh huh.

sd	my husband has just gotten stuck.	b	Oh .

sd	And we go to On the Border. And lots of places that have, I think	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he'll just eat chips until we've got three or four baskets coming back.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and for some reason the cooler weather makes me tend to want to go eat lasagna and garlic bread .	b	Right,

sd	So, we went to El Sorrento.	qy	have you ever, tried Pappasito's?

^q	we're going to have to go."	sd	it is delicious.

sd	in fact, you're about the third or fourth person in the last month that said that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I guess we'll have to do it.	sd	you always stand in line when you go

sd	It said there was always a line.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I mean that's a good, that's a good sign.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	Now, my kids didn't like it because they just wanted to get plain old spaghetti or lasagna,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and most of those things were a little more northern Italy.	b	Right.

sd	They're not very,	qy^d	th , they're the Spaghetti Warehouse type.

aa^r	Exactly.	b	Right.

sv	The place of the seventies .	aa	Yeah,

sv	most kids do.	sd	It's real entertaining for her.

qy	do you ever go for steak? Just a steak and potato and salad bar, that kind of thing.	ng	not really.

sd	I can't remember his name.	qy	Steak.

sv	and they have these really corny radio commercials	b	Uh huh.

sd	My husband was saying that up north they have such nice restaurants where you can go after a theater or after the movie.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then they, closed up .	b	Yes.

sv	So most of these places are pretty much just, theme restaurants around here.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Of course, you know, down, next to downtown up around McKinney and everything you know, there's a different class of restaurants up there that I can't even touch.

aa^r	That's right.	sv	You know, it would probably take my whole paycheck just to go in and have one meal up there

sd	I had a friend who was taken to Lawry's downtown for prime rib	b	Uh huh.

sd	We usually don't go for beef really anymore.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we've gotten so used to doing chicken and things at home that that's usually the way we'll go if we're not going lasagna.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	besides, you know, chicken and steaks and everything I grill at home.

ba	Well, I understand.	sd	and really they're a lot better than what I get in the restaurant .

sv	and save you some money too .	aa	That's right.

qw	now what's your child's favorite place to eat?	^h	favorite place,

sv	They're easy .	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah .	aa	That's right.

sd	They like to go pretty much where we like to go	b	Uh huh.

sd	so not Pizza Inn, but pizza to our house.	b	Right.

qy	Well, is there anything else you'd like to discuss about it?	nn	No,

fc	Thank you.	fc	Uh huh,

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qo	What do you think about capital punishment?	sd	Well, I'm kind of in favor of it for certain crimes.

qw	Which crimes do you feel that?	sv	Well, I think first degree murder, probably warrants it.

sd	so many times it's so brutal and just recurrent	aa	Right.

sv	selling, I think should also.	aa	Exactly.

b	Yeah .	sd	well I originally come from the state that has, the death penalty.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, they're pretty liberal on it.

b	Yeah	ad	go ahead.

sd	Texas, I saw on T V the other night, has had forty six in like the past several years.	b	Yeah.

sd	They do it by lethal injection, at Huntsville.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yeah .	h	I don't know.

b	Yeah.	sv	And that's not,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think crime rates deterred a little bit by using it

b	Yeah.	sd	with Florida that's a big problem because there's so many people in jail that they have to let them out every year.

sd	in fact, a big gubernatorial issue is the the turnover rates of, repeat offenders being let out and doing it again.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you know, it's, it gets to be a big problem.

b	Yeah.	ad	go ahead.

sv	I wish if they were going to do it, they would be a little more consistent in dealing with who gets lethal injection and who doesn't.	b	Right.

sv	not being able to put it off for fifteen years.	b	Uh huh.

bh	really?	na	sure, you know.

ba	Goodness.	sd	I mean just because, like we said before, they don't have enough room in the jails you know, there's a lot of incentive for them to be let out early.

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know,

b	Yeah .	sv	Maybe not solve it,

sv	yeah I tend to think the repeal system for the death penalty is a little too lenient.	b	Yeah.

sv	kind of takes away from the significance of the death penalty.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm a graduate student at the University of Texas in Dallas.	bk	okay.

sd	audiology.	bk	Okay.

qw	What do you do?	sd	I'm a doctoral student at the University of Central Florida.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

bh	Oh really?	ny	yeah.

ba	Neat.	h	But, I don't know.

sd	this was in conjunction with the guy that was put in the gas chamber in California.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the forty sixth in the last twenty five years I think is what	bh	is that right?

sd	they gave a run down that Texas Texas tends to be a little more robust and disciplined area then .	bk	Okay.

sv	I mean, it just seems, Yeah, it just seemed a little inconsistent.	ba	Jeez,

sd	you have these people who are serial killers that didn't even get the death sentence back when ever you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I don't think, the military doesn't execute anymore	b	Yeah.

sd	Or death before the firing squad or whatever.	b	Yeah.

o	return anything.	sd	Well, really, the only things that I have returned have not been faulty,

b	Right.	sd	I really haven't had to return things because they didn't perform the way they were supposed to.

sv	maybe those type of products should be for older kids .	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have a five and a half and a three and a half year old that play with them .	b	Uh huh .

sd	and they're easily lost and easily broken	b	Uh huh.

bf	It's been a while since they've, gone through the Barbie stuff .	sd	But we did have Barbies and things,

b	Right.	sd	So she wasn't in it for very long before she was out of it,

b^m	Don't remember her breaking,	nn	No,

sd	camping on the beach, and all of these come with, like tiny, tiny little plates and little sunglasses.	ba	Goodness.

sd	and, less than a week later the arm was broken.	ba	dear.

sd	That's one nice thing, is they're real good about replacing it.	sv	Well, I guess if they'll replace them, then they assume they shouldn't have broken.

sd	Well, the, you know, those little arms are supposed to twist almost any way	^2	Any direction.

sd	she's not that strong, that I would she's not that big of a girl that I think could really take a grip on it like a bigger kid could, you know.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yes.	sd	You know, that was about it.

b^m	That was about it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And the Barbie doll itself is usually pretty durable and that kind of stuff	sd	And the main thing my kids seem to be into nowadays are electronics.

bh	is that right?	ny	Uh huh

qy	Well, do you see that there's a big problem with electronic things?	nn	No,

b	Yes.	sv	And, it seems like it's just an added tack on.

b	yeah. .	sv	so it seems like it's a waste of money.

sv	Well, you almost assume if you're going to have problems with it, it's usually before that warranty would expire	aa	Uh huh.

b	You never even needed it.	sv	And so it seems ridiculous.

b^m	It's time to replace it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think these extended warranties are gimmicks, really.	aa	I do too.

sd	and it was ridiculous.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	you always think gosh, if I say no, then I won't, you know.	b	Uh huh.

h	I don't know.	sd(^q)	and he said we're not going to buy any of these anymore,

sv	You probably got your worth out of it anyway.	aa	Uh huh,

qy^d	and when you do buy things, you probably watch what type of .	nd	Well, you look at the consumer guide.

b	Yes.	sd	And, you go around

qo	What do you think about the, Peace Corps or public service commitment?	sd	that's the first I've ever heard of it.

sv	but there are an awful lot of young people who would benefit from, some sort of public service, like the Conservation Corps back in the thirties or, various other things of that sort.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't quite see how they'd make it work.	b	Uh huh.

qh	How would they decide who goes into, building fire breaks in Yosemite National Park and who goes to Saudi Arabia?	aa	Right,

sv	the difficulty would be in whether it's voluntary or involuntary.	b	Right.

sd	And the people who were proposing it said that it should be involuntary, that it should be like a draft.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and some people would get civilian, service, like working in hospitals.	b@	Uh huh. Uh huh.

sd	or farm work in World War One I remember reading about.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I suppose that there is, justification for taking everybody if you take anybody.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I just really think that the difficulties involved in paying them, sorting them out, assigning them, training them would be insurmountable.	b	Uh huh.

aa	well it's a possibility.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, I think that in the cases like that, they had to be, pretty thoroughly examined to prove that they had pacifist and religious beliefs and so forth, and that this wasn't something new just to keep out of going to war.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was, something that was a fundamental part of their philosophy of life.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, in addition to that, we have the cost because you have to pay something for, their room and board	b	Right.

sv	and then you have to pay them some kind of a stipend, even if it's like the Peace Corps where they don't get most of it until they come home, you have to pay them something.	b	Uh huh.

b	yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

sd	Now I had a lot of friends who went to the Peace Corps, back in the mid sixties	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't, know what we got for all the money.	b	Uh huh.

sv	We had an awful lot of idealistic people who went off to, what was then East Pakistan is now Bangladesh, and to, Algeria and to, Southeast Asia and lots of, out of the way places.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I don't know if they really had significant effects in the places where they went, in teaching the people how to cope with their lives better.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I was living such a stringent lifestyle that it was very beneficial to me.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I don't know if I was doing it in different situation, you know, not a really religious background, if I would get a lot out of it.

sd	They were not drafting you and sending you, against your will.	b	Right.

qy	Do you think that would be a good idea?	sd	well, like I say, I know that there are some type of programs that they have available for like teenagers to go and do, work in the national parks and work in, neighborhoods to clean up and that sort of thing.

sd	I don't either.	sv	But I know that that helps a lot with training and, a lot of,

sd	And they, do forestry work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they do fire prevention work and certainly things of that sort.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm not so sure what kind of, training that is for the future for those kids.	b	Yeah,

sv	but whether it's something that they can put to economic use later on is a different subject.	aa	Right,

ba	Good point ,	sv	yeah, so that may not benefit them in the long run.

fc	but my other line is blinking.	fc	Okay,

fc	But it was good to talk to you.	fc	You, too,

qo	Well, what do you know about Latin American policies?	sv	Well, I think they're kind of ambivalent, really.

o@	 Are you, relating this, to the, affair we've got going on in Haiti right now?	sv	we don't know, half the time we don't know who to support.

ba	that's just it.	sv	It's got to be tough,

sv	but we seem to be lacking the ability to take a stance.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	and , you know, of course I'm sure we have some enemies down there who wouldn't care what happened to us,

b	Right.	sv	but but that's a tough deal,

aa	That's true.	sv	maybe it's, you know, I'm reflecting how I feel about it,

aa	Sure.	sv	and it's still going on,

sd	she was from El Salvador	b	Yeah.

qy^d	Marcos	ny	Yeah,

sd	Marcos is Philippines,	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	Well, you know who I'm talking about.	na	I can see his face forget his name .

sv	anyway, when he came into power, he basically just took everybody's property, you know, just assigned it to himself.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and in that respect I have to agree that I think we're taking the right stance because they were a democracy turned,	b	Yeah.

aa	right	b^r	Yeah.

sv	basically a dictator fascist.	sv	And it seems like those countries are so easily susceptible to that kind of thing,

qo	Well, what do you think of, this, U S free trade agreement we're working on with Mexico?	sv	Well, I think it's long overdue

b	Uh huh.	sv	there's so much difference in the economies of the two countries, you know, I have a problem, with whether it's going to work or not, you know,

sv	and a lot of the larger Mexican businesses are trying to, make themselves Americanized, I guess which is great because that's what they basically need to do.	b	Yeah.

sv	The big problem with the United States is we have our basic nine to five schedule you know,	b	Yeah

sd	and we don't have the Siesta,	b	yeah.

sv	and we've had our way of life,	sv	I think their version of the good old boy network going that,

qo	what kind of hobbies do you have?	sd	mostly what I do,

sd	I started reading the newspaper, and kind of forgot about it .	b	Oh.

sd	I'd say reading is probably one of my biggest ones, because it's the type of thing that you can do a little bit at a time, whereas, I would love to do crafts and stuff if I just had the time to do it or if I had the space.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I couldn't really leave it out if I was working on something.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Reading is a little bit easier to work around.	aa	Yeah,

aa	That's right.	sd	I get too involved in reading sometimes that I neglect what I should be doing.

sd	I do the same thing .	sv	You get so involved in what you're reading.

qo	What types of crafts do you do?	sd	I do a little bit of woodworking,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my dad had a lot of woodworking equipment

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I did some of that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Mostly just stuff that I can, you know, use right around the house or give away as gifts.

b	Right.	sd	I've been making a lot of quilts, well, not a lot, but several quilts lately.

sd	And, back when I was in high school, I worked at a needlework shop,	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I have recently done some cross stitch.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's just getting the time to do it .	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh .	sd	It never has worked out completely.

sd	Wrong .	b	Right.

sd	But I was wrong.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I enjoyed it.	b	Yeah.

ba	my gosh.	sd	it was just too much to start with.

b	Yeah.	sd	And there were so many different shadings and colors,

ba	That's pretty understandable.	sd	And I've done some of the crewel and something similar to that

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it doesn't have the specific stitches.

b	Uh huh.	sd	More like embroidery or something.

sd	I was tonight,	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	qo	How about movies,

sd	they live in Duncanville	b	Uh huh.

sd	So they are always borrowing my tapes.	b	Yeah.

sd	But haven't done that yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I probably should go buy some.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm not real crazy about pulling weeds and things like that.	b	Yeah,

sd	I like the planting, and watering is okay.	sv	It's so nice though when you have a nice yard full of flowers,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've got a few plants here,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I enjoy it,

sd	but I don't always get direct sun except in certain spots.	b	yeah.

sd	And so that's probably my problem there.	qy	Have you tried growing any, like fruits and vegetables or anything?

sd^e	I never have tried that, just because I don't have that much space on this little porch here in this apartment or this little balcony.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I think when I was real little I probably had a finger in on that every time he did it and had to be out there and watch and that type of stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I've never really tried anything like that since then.	sd	Well, I considered it last year

b	Uh huh.	sv	So. I think it would be nice to just go out and pick some tomatoes off the porch.

ba	wow.	sd	if I'd do something, be motivated enough to do something, I think it would work out well.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but there goes that motivation thing again .

ny^r	yeah	ba	that's good,

sd	and sure enough, boy the fur just came off like crazy once I got them in the tub.	b	yeah.

sd	They went and hid after they got dried off.	qy^g	Sulked for a while, .

ny	Yeah.	sd	Well, I like animals,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we thought, well maybe when they're a little bit bigger then we'll,

b	Yeah.	sd	or get into a house with a little more space.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I like dogs

sv	to me, dogs need a yard, even little dogs.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I just think dogs need to be outside, though.	aa	I agree with you.

ba	now that's an idea	sd	that she can watch, but won't take too much care.

sv	even a cat, you never know when they might bite or scratch or something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But with little ones, I'd be kind of scared , to get anything that has teeth or claws.	sv	Especially when they're not quite to the age of understanding that they're hurting, you know,

b	yeah.	sd	And if I was a cat or dog, I'd respond probably by biting or something.

b	yeah .	sd	That'd be my self defense.

fc	and I'm out of good ideas for a hobby anyway.	fc	okay.

fc	Well it was good talking to you.	fc	Thank you for calling.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qy	Do you see anything wrong with public school systems?	ny	Well, yes,

aa	I agree.	qy	Do you?

sd^e	and I taught for fourteen years before we moved to Texas,	b	Is that right.

sd	and instead of spending my time coming up with creative learning stations and things like that I was filling out all these forms for all the children	bf	You were a bookkeeper .

sd	it was filled with documentation	ba	no.

aa	yes.	sd	Well, I have three years toward a teaching degree and am trying to get headed back,

sd	Me, too.	sd	but I'm really having questions if I can deal with that system and have a good conscience about, you know, what I do.

sv	They're so worried about lawsuits and the scores the children get on tests now and teacher competency, you know,	b	Right.

sv	she's always worried whose looking over her shoulder	sv	What child's going to say something some parent's going to overreact to

aa	I know.	aa	that's true.

qy	Do you have children in the system?	na	I have two,

bk	Oh.	sd	We, live in a district that has open classrooms,

qy	Are you in Plano?	ny	Yes.

sd	I am too.	b	You too.

sd	and it didn't work then	b	Oh.

sd	and when we moved down here, I was just appalled that they were still doing it here,	b	Still at it.

sd	I know last year my son had to eat in the classroom because there was no cafeteria at his school	ba	goodness.

sd	so he spent all day in this one large open area,	b	Oh.

sd	It seems like the schools in Michigan were much better than they are down here.	bh	Were they?

sd	That was our last tour, in Michigan.	sd	Well, we were from North, Carolina,

b	Oh.	sd	but our children got a very good education there

b	Uh huh.	sd	they were in the magnet school program,

ba	wow.	sd	and it was wonderful

aa	Yes.	sd(^q)	so, you know, I'm coming to Plano thinking, Well, gosh, it's going to be really great,

sd	We heard wonderful things about it until we actually got in the system.	ba	Isn't that interesting,

aa	Probably so, on publicity and letting realtors know and key people how wonderful the schools are	aa	I guess so.

qy	As a freshman?	ny	Yeah.

b	Yep.	sd	And, he's pleased with his classes.

sd	so and she seems to be studying and has just about the right amount of home work I would expect for a freshman to have.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	but yet she has some every night.	sd	Well, Eric seems to have quite a few nights where he doesn't have any,

qh	but, who knows what he's going to bring home.	aa	That's right.

qw	well, Myrna, how do you get your news?	sd	most of it is from the radio, and also from the news programs that we watch in the afternoon.

b	Yeah.	sd	We usually watch the local news and the, national news both.

sd	And I really enjoy just sitting down and watching a news broadcast.	sv	Well you can always get up and leave that .

aa	tha , yeah, that's true.	sd	I just don't seem to have time to sit down and read the paper.

aa	yeah.	sv	So, it's so much easier to sit there

sd	a lot of times I eat while I'm watching the news.	b	Yeah.

qo	what did you think about the coverage like over in the, Persian Gulf?	sv	I think they did a great job.

sv	and then, you know, the special reports and the extended news coverage I thought was really good.	b	Uh huh .

b	Yeah.	sv	And you could always find some channel that had something on

aa^r	yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they used to have a program called T News, and just updates of different things that were going on within T I.

b	yeah.	sd	Well now, they have had so much good response from this, that T I now has C N N on all the time.

ba	well that's great.	sd	So, we can always run upstairs and, you know, get a quickie update on what's going on, if we really want to.

sv	or if you have a break in the middle of the day, you take a coffee break you can always stay informed.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I think that's, that really has changed the way, I look at the news.	aa	Yes .

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we just don't have it available out there where we are.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and sometimes we'd watch the weather stations.

sv	and then you could go on, you know, to do what else you wanted to do.	b	Yeah.

sd	So television is my main new source.	sd	I get that too, because I'm in a van pool,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I'm in the van, you know, two hours a day

qy	to commute to work?	ny	Yes,

bk	Oh.	sd	And in the morning I try to sleep because it's dark thirty.

sd	that's necessary.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	qy	are you in Baltimore itself?

sd	you could say I'm in Baltimore.	b	Yeah,

qy	in Baltimore?	nn	well no,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah

sv	that's, that's a really nice area, Bethesda area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, the closer you get to Washingt , D C the more expensive it is.	b	Uh huh.

sd	most people have relocated to the Washington area, you know.	ba	no,

sd	I don't really bother with the Washington station because it's so far removed from what I'm interested in.	sv	Well most of what they're talking about in Washington is the crime problems that they're having there.

sd	they've gotten rid of that really bad mayor and then, brought in,	b	Uh huh,

sv	You know, from what I pick up on the news, it's a difficult process, you know, to get rid of a bad mayor.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	they both moved way out.

b	yeah.	sd	I think one of them lives in Germantown

sv	but Germantown is a nice area.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	It's a nice area .	sd	It's, means they have to drive a little bit,

qy	Are they driven by themselves.	sd	well now, I think he carpools,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because he's got fairly regular hours since he came back,

b	yeah.	sd	And then she was supposed to have gotten out of active duty as of last Friday.

qy	They didn't call you for Mother's Day?	nd	We were gone .

qy	You weren't home?	nn	no,

fc	Well I guess we should stop now.	fc	Well I thank you for calling,

fc	Hey, thanks a lot, and bye.	fc	Thank you,

qo	How do you feel about public schools?	sv	Well, our public schools are really poor, I feel.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm not sure where Georgia ranks in the nation

b	Yeah.	sv	And, there's a lot of things that I see that are so obviously wrong. That you would think it would be easy to correct.

b	Right.	sv	But the system doesn't allow for the corrections .

b	Uh huh.	qo	How about you?

sd	I have a sister who used to live in Kennesaw, Georgia.	bk	yes.

sd	And she complained quite a bit about their school system there.	b	Yes.

b	Right.	sd	She was in Cobb County.

sd	I really don't come from here	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I live in Orlando, Florida usually.	b	Okay.

sd	They're pretty good.	ba	Well, that's great.

sd	But I know in a lot of rural areas they're not that good.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he says the schools there are just terrible.	sv	Well, I feel that we're way behind.

ba	Wow.	aa	Yeah .

sd	That is slow.	sd	my husband and I go to the store

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I don't blame the teachers as much as I blame the system.

qo	What do you think's wrong to cause that?	sv	well, for one thing there's not enough money in the school system.

b	Yeah.	sd	my son's teacher has twenty seven students.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And that's certainly is a lot of students for one person to deal with on an every day basis.

am	Perhaps.	sv	but more than that, I don't think that they have the authority to command the attention of the children.

b	Yeah.	sv	And when you have two kids in that class that constantly keeps the class in an uproar and you're not at liberty to do something about it, other than give them on campus isolation or send them to the principal's office. It it, you know, it can, it can really be bad.

sd	that's one thing I worry about .	sv	also I think, we have a lot of, Hispanics

b	uh huh.	sd	the county I'm in, the minorities are mostly Hispanic.

sv	Probably quite a few black people up there	ar	No .

bh	is that right?	ny	yes,

bk	okay.	sd	I hate to say,

sv	but then again.	sv	But it is a problem . especially in the inner city.

sv	you have to admit that teachers have to slow things down for people who don't understand, especially if there's not a very well developed special education program at the school.	nd	Well,

sv	you can't do that.	sv	and if the parents do not care enough to take an interest in whether the homework is done you know.

sd	See, I grew up in Nebraska	b	Uh huh.

sd	we had a school that had classes probably about the same size you're talking, twenty seven, thirty kids to a class.	b	Yeah.

sd	I, I was, I was doing mathematics, fractions and division and multiplication by the third grade, easily.	b	Uh huh.

sv	With all this, don't hurt the kids and don't abuse their rights, you've also taken something away from the discipline, I think.	b	Uh huh .

b	Yeah.	sd	We just cannot afford it.

qw	what are your suggestions in making a family reunion successful .	sv	Have a big family, I guess,

qw	well how old are you?	sd	Twenty five,

qy^d	so you ha , you have been to some family reunions, perhaps.	sd	I just got married.

qw	Now how long in advance do they, let them know?	nd	Well, we plan on it,

bk	Uh huh.	sd	so it's every four years

bf	So they all know it.	aa	Yeah

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And, a lot of my family is in Indiana.

b	Yes.	sd	So, we usually meet like at my uncle's cottage at the lake and, make a couple days of it.

qy	do they all have the small children too, that come?	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	So all ages.	ny	Yeah

sd	Well my husband on one side has an extended family,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they don't ever plan it as, like you do.	b	Uh huh .

sd	so they have to start talking about it, or getting their act together about six months ahead to get in touch with everybody, because they're rather socially active too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but six months ahead has seemed to be okay for them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	my parents are the youngest of very large families.	b	Oh.

sd	Therefore, they don't have many people left.	b	Yeah.

sd	I have one sister, and three brothers	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're only three out of five of us who have children.	b	Oh.

sd	So, we get to spend a lot of quality time with each other.	b	Yeah.

sd	And that's kind of nice because my husband's family reunions are so large,	b	Uh huh.

sd	we don't really know many of them.	b	Yeah,

sd^r	they're a lot of fun,	b	Yeah.

sv	and, you kind of forget what happened, and who they were from the time before.	aa	Yeah,

qy	those are the ones that are in Texas?	nn	no,

qrr	Or you go to Indiana on that?	na	the ones in Indiana,

qw	where in Indiana?	sd	Lafayette.

sd	I used to live in Indianapolis.	b	Yeah,

sv	it's gorgeous.	aa	Uh huh,

qw	when is your next one, scheduled now.	sd	Well it's like, the last one was my high school graduation

qy	and do you think you'll have a baby to take back with you .	no	maybe,

b^m	Maybe .	sd	two more years,

sv	I mean you need another milestone, you know.	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	and then all of your family probably has not met your husband.	b	yeah,

bh	is he?	sd	so they all met,

qy^d	and your both living in Sherman.	ny	Yeah.

qy	and does he?	nn	No,

sd	but, I have a friend who, is working on this project.	bh	really.

ny	Yes,	qy	Are they getting all the data they need?

sd	I have a hard time getting, people on the telephone.	bh	really.

sd	But I got off that.	fc	Well we've kind of exhausted everything I guess.

fc	well, I think we have been talking probably about four and a half minutes.	fc	okay.

fc	And, we both look forward to going to our next reunions, I'm sure.	fc	yeah.

fc	But it has been fun talking to you.	fc	Well you too.

fc	Thank you.	fc	And maybe I'll talk to you again.

fc	good.	fc	Okay,

qw	Where do you enjoy dining out?	sd	I generally go to the quickie places just because they're cheap.

qy	do you have children?	na	we have four,

qy^g	that makes a difference, doesn't it.	ny	Yes.

qw	What area of the country do you live in?	sd	I'm in Texas.

sd	I am, too.	sd	And we lived in Ohio prior to this.

b	Oh.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't like to go to the drive thrus because sometimes they get your order wrong

aa	That's right.	sv	and then you're stuck

b	Yes.	sd	so I really don't like the drive thrus that much.

sd	and my husband and I like getting the salads or the lighter meals	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we can have a salad bar	b	Yeah.

sd	so sometimes we drive for a couple hundred miles until we find a Wendy's, because it's all either McDonald's or Dairy Queens,	sv	and, in, in the countries, unless it's a large city, I guess Dairy Queen and Wal Mart are their main .

aa	that's right,	sv	That's what you find,

aa	I know.	sd	My husband likes, Dairy Queens.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so he's a fan of Dairy Queen,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But we eat out so much it's gotten so I don't like to really eat any place

b	Oh.	sd	so that might be why I look for inexpensive places just because we're eating out probably five nights a week maybe.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Or we eat junk food at home

qw	Well, what are some of your favorite inexpensive places?	sd	we'll go to them all.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so mine is, I guess strongly monetarily based.

sd	we are Little Caesar fans here	b	Right.

sd	that's where we always go,	sv	But it's just a lot cheaper than Domino's,

sd	we like Grandy's, too.	sd	McDonald's, we've sort of been off of that for a while

b	Oh.	sd	so, we don't go there that much.

qw	Where do you go if you like to have a nice meal out, or a big meal?	^h	A nice meal,

qw	Where do you go for steaks?	sd	It's usually when we're out of town

b	Oh.	sd	and I'll order steak or steak and lobster combined

b	Uh huh.	sd	so it's really not in town.

qy	You ever been to Houston's on Belt Line?	nn	No.

sd	That's where we go to get steaks	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you wind up waiting about an hour	b	Uh huh.

sd	then you can go right through.	b	Right.

sd	We don't usually take the kids when we go there,	sd	But well, we don't go out that much,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, with my husband traveling he can get all he needs of that during the week going to those places

aa	That's right.	sd	so, it doesn't really matter to him.

sd	so we have a conflict of interests on the weekend.	sd	but I think it all began eating out when we had, the boys in different, baseball on baseball tea ,

b	Right.	sd	it was mainly baseball teams

b	Yes.	sd	and my husband would coach,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm not one that's going to fix, you know, the meal at two o'clock in the afternoon so they can eat it all day whenever they're there.

b	Right.	sv@	If there not there in between five and six, well, then I guess we don't eat today, / * sp:they're

aa	Yep.	sv	You go somewhere else.

o	Okay .	o	Okay .

sd	I mean, I, I, I tend to read like only out of a couple, you know, groups.	b	Uh huh,

sd	so I tend to read a lot of the baseball books	sd	I'm a big baseball fan too.

sd	And, I read a lot of science fiction.	sd	I teach school,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, of course, being a woman, I like romance novels and stuff like that a whole lot.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I read a lot of that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, but, I don't read a lot of nonfiction,

sd	And of course, I don't ever get around to reading them .	b	Yeah,

sd	I belong to Quality Paperback Book Club.	bh	do you?

sd	Like I got BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM, you know, like a couple of years ago.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's like eight hundred pages .	ba	my word.

sd	And it was like, I want to read something else for a while .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	But it's just tough to get through that first two hundred pages or so.

sd	BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM starts off, you know, in the eighteen forties, you know. And it's like,	b	Yeah.

sv	but you know, it's hard sometimes.	ba	It's right,

sd	I read a lot of science fiction.	qy	Do you?

ny	Yeah.	sd	When I find an author I really like, I try to read everything they write. Because you get used to their style and you really enjoy it.

sd	there's one science fiction writer named, Allen Dean Foster.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I must have like fifty or sixty books by him .	bh	Is that right?

sd	I mean, you know, I have well, almost everything he's ever done.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	And, you know, I know that you know, when I get his book I'm usually going to enjoy it.	b	Uh huh,

sv	it's fun to do that.	qh	Isn't it amazing that somebody can write that many books about science fiction?

sd	Well, he does a lot of like, movie adaptations and things like that.	bh	does he really?

sv	And, his adaptations are usually really good.	b	Oh .

sd	But it turns out that, Foster actually, ghost wrote it for him.	bh	Is that right?

sd	when I read it, I should have realized that because, I mean, it had Foster's style written all over it .	qy	Is that right?

ny	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

na	I'm sure he does .	sv	Well, I would think he would .

sd	Well, I mean he's doing all right, probably .	aa	I'm sure he is,

ba	That's true.	b	Yeah.

sv	you're aware of that kind of thing .	aa	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, that's why I like to read SPORTS ILLUSTRATED so much

sd	So I'm,	b	Oh.

sd	but, I was mostly interested in the baseball stuff.	qy	So you're probably, a Baltimore fan, right, an Oriole fan?

no	actually I'm a Red Sox fan more than anything.	qy	Is that right?

ny	Yeah.	bh	Boston?

sd	but, I, I do like the Orioles also.	sv	I'm sure you do.

b	Yeah .	sd	I'm not from here.

sv	Toledo.	b	Yeah.

sd	Went to a Mud Hens double header .	sd	I love the Mud Hens .

sd	I saved that issue, actually.	bh	Did you?

sd	it was a lot of fun.	b	Yeah.

h	I don't,	sd	I know, I know they don't.

sd	but I don't know if they play, in the same location.	sd	they must, they must have changed then. Because it used, well

sd	minor league, baseball, I think is a lot more fun than, major league baseball.	aa	Yes,

sd	And it's a lot cheaper .	ba	That's for sure,

sd	It's about forty miles west.	bh	Is that right?

sd	And I go out there almost as much as the Orioles	bh	Is that right?

sd	and it's just great.	qw	Well, like how much is an Oriole game?

sd	the ch , the cheapest ticket you can normally get is like six fifty to seven fifty.	ba	gosh.

sd	And, hot dogs like start at a dollar fifty .	b	yeah.

ba	that's nice.	sd	But, you know, it's in the bleachers, way out you know, in center field,

b	Yeah.	sd	You still can see well.

qy	Do you know offhand?	sd	Box seats run from, like eight dollars to twelve dollars.

sd	But we're getting a new stadium next year	sv	so it'll go up.

sd	And they're saying how there's going to be a lot more parking for the stadium.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I'm not going to be able to do that downtown .	sd	yeah, that's a bummer.

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, see, baseball here though is the cheapest game in town. Because the Cowboys,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And the Mavericks are t ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So baseball's cheap, compared to other games.

qy	Weren't you guys, supposed to get a stadium in downtown Dallas?	sd	Well, that didn't go over, now.

bf	it didn't, go through.	sd	they, they decided, you know, George Bush, who's the main owner of the Rangers, decided that, they'd stay in Arlington.

bk	okay.	sd	So they're going to stay there. Which is fine, because Arlington's got a lot of things to offer.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it would have devastated them if they would have taken it away.

b	Yeah.	sd	there's Six Flags right by the stadium, there's a Wet 'n Wild

b	Uh huh.	sd	all the tourists come there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it would have been devastated,

sd	that's what I'd always heard,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it's takes us maybe, well, thirty five to forty minutes to get there from Plano, which is not too bad at all.

sd	That's about what it takes me to get to Memorial.	b	Yeah.

sd	And it takes me almost the same amount of time to go to Frederick, as it does to go to the ballpark in, Baltimore. Because, to go out to Frederick, I just jump on the Interstate	bh	Is that right?

sd	because I live just south of the Interstate.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the stadium's right off the Interstate .	ba	gosh.

sd	but I've got to go, stop and go traffic and everything.	b	Yeah.

sv	but you don't read many sports books	ng	Well, not really.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he reads everything he gets his, get his hands on.

sd	I understand there was a really good basketball book called, A SEASON ON THE BRINK.	sd	I never heard that one.

sd	It was like John Feinstein or something like that wrote it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just heard about it the other night.	b	Huh.

sd	I was listening to something on the radio about, you know, a talk show about sports books,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they mentioned that one.	sd	I'll have to tell my son about that.

sd	I saw a book kicking around on the history of the A B A, which,	ba	that would be good

sd	they do it to prisoners	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, I would not mind it.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	And I don't have a problem at all with employers, testing in the hiring process,

bf	unless an employer has a reason to believe that the work competency of the employee is hurting the business.	aa	Yeah.

sv	Number one because generally if they are involved in that type of thing they are into theft	b	Yeah.

sv	it's not going to be wholesale because of the cost.	aa	absolutely.

sd	but my concern is, school bus drivers.	b	yeah.

sd	I'm concerned in the medical field.	b	Yeah.

sv	I, I think they should screen for alcohol in these areas, too because I consider that a drug.	aa	I wish they would.

sv	But when you consider they could be driving an airplane or driving a bus, or a train,	aa	I know.

sv	They don't have to be totally roaring drunk	aa	No.

sv	just a little off on their timing could mean life.	b	Yeah,

b	okay.	sd	and, you know, our names or our employee numbers or whatever are in a pool

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I've already been tested once when I was hired and once since they initiated this random testing program.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But I work with one girl who was tested, her name got randomly selected three times in six months

ba	my word.	sv	and I think that's the only reason I have a problem with it, when you know, there's no reason to suspect someone, you know.

bf	Control.	sv	that's getting a little bit,

sv	Well, as long as you accept that it is a random testing you know, to alleviate,	b	Yeah.

sv	that way you can't feel like somebody's out to get me.	b	Right.

sv	it's almost like being selected for jury duty .	b	Yeah.

sv	that's just the way it is.	sv	Either just the lucky or the unlucky one, depending on how you look at it.

sv	I would rather have it that way, to know that I was chosen at random by a computer than to think that somebody turned me in because I think when you let other employees turn in people,	aa	absolutely,

aa	Right.	sv	it could really get out of hand.

sv	if somebody does observe you say at a party, using drugs I would think that it would be their obligation to report that.	b	Yeah.

aa	Right.	sd	I'd just I'd feel really uncomfortable.

sv	but there would be, even be a situation where you were at a machine and working with somebody that was that way.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	but out on the line, they've got people working some serious equipment.

sv	I just think employers have to have, especially given today, the drug abuse that goes on, I just think employers have to have some kind of way to see that they're not being put at risk. * slash error Because they're the ones who are going to have the lawsuits, the insurance claims, et cetera,	^2	Put at risk.

sv	and I'm not sure but what some of the insurance claims aren't due to, illnesses brought on by drug abuse or alcohol abuse.	sv	And in the long run, we're all paying for that

b	Right.	sv	so I mean, it protects us in the long run hopefully when they do that.

b	Right.	sd	I was trying to remember, there was a court case, here where I live, just a few months ago.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and it's still tied up in the legal channels.

qy	is it, just a small group of the employees that are concerned?	ng	Well, it's the whole city,

bf	they just don't want to be drug tested.	aa	Yeah.

sd	You know, my husband and I have never been in a situation where somebody said you have to be drug tested.	b	Yeah.

sd	my husband's retired from I R S agents.	b	Uh huh.

sd	However, this isn't a problem that we have either alcohol or drug,	b	Right.

sd	and so, we, in our minds we're thinking what's the big deal.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and then they say, well, if you give them the right to do this, then they're going to take some other right away from you,	sd	I don't believe that.

sd^t	I guess our topic is, advice about going to college.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you have children of your own?	nn	no,

qy	are you?	ny	Uh huh.

qw	What school are you going to?	sd	N C State.

qy	Are you enjoying it?	sd	well, it's a lot of work .

qy	Are you working on your, Bachelor's degree?	^2	My Bachelor's.

qw	And what field of study are you in?	sd	it's actually in computer science

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I have a special interest in Voice I O.

qy	Are you from North Carolina?	nn	No,

bh	are you really?	ny	Uh huh.

qw	Well, what took you to North Carolina?	sd	the service.

bk	I see.	b	Yeah.

sd	I went to Texas Tech out in Lubbock and, I had a friend, my roommate went to Tech also,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but she was from New Mexico	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she had to pay out of state tuition	ba	Ooh.

sd	and I think that would have, played a real big part of my decision	sd	It would have played a major part in mine.

sd	It was like four dollars a semester hour	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she was paying forty dollars an hour	ba	Golly,

sd	so she paid ten times as much because she was out of state.	b	Yeah,

sd	so I think that would be one thing I would definitely consider try to find a school within the state that, I liked well enough to attend.	b	Uh huh,

b	yeah.	sv	so depending on what your major is, or medical, you might want to attend somewhere like Tech

b	right.	sd	well some schools may even give you financial aid, where another one won't.

sd	but, it was wonderful, because I got one of those grants that you don't have to repay	b	really.

sd	it paid most of my tuition, and, a lot of the book costs and that kind of thing	ba	Wow, that's great.

b	I really,	qy	Was it a Pell grant?

br	I'm sorry, what did you say?	qw	What kind of grant was it?

sd	Well, it was called a B E O G, a Basic Equal Opportunity Grant	b	Uh huh.

sd	My parents had five children and really didn't make enough money to send any of us to school.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so, because based on the number of children and the amount of money, my father brought in, I got a small grant	b	Uh huh.

sd	So then I got a real big grant, because the amount of money I was making really didn't compare .	ba	Wow.

sd	I don't know if those are still available or not,	sd	there's a lot of different organizations who do give grants,

sd	so I went to school about three years of my four for almost nothing,	 b	Uh huh.

sv	it was really nice.	o	another thing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, something that might play a part is the size of the college.

b	Right.	sv	the smaller schools can give you a lot more specialized instruction and attention than the larger schools

b	Yeah.	sv	in the larger schools you get caught up in the bureaucracy,

b	Uh huh.	sd	instead of a scholar you get a T A

ba	That's right.	sv	and, you don't get near the, quality of education ,

sd	I didn't know that.	b	yeah.

sd	Well, I guess the only comparison I had ever heard was between a Christian college, because I thought about attending Abilene Christian instead of Texas Tech	b	Uh huh.

bh	Really?	sv	it's really a shame because of, you know, the instruction

b	Yeah.	sd	I'd rather go to any other college, you know, in the state,

b	Yeah,	sv	It's kind of unfortunate, because they've just grown so big that they just don't care about the students any more.

sv	you're just a number.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	 %	and,

b	Yeah.	sv	it's really a bad situation here.

sd	Well, I'd like to have a Corvette.	ba	wow.

sd	But my, weekly wages don't apply for me to have that kind of car,	b	Yeah.

sd	so, I'll more likely get a car for economic reasons.	b	Right.

sd	so probably a economic size car or,	qw	What kind of a car do you have now?

sd	It's a piece of ,	sd	My car is really old, too,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I would like my next car to have good gas mileage.

b	Right.	sd	And, same here,

b	right .	sd	While we're talking, my next car, I'd like to be sporty and, you know nice,

b	Right.	sd	but, you know, it's expensive

sd	I forgot about that.	b	Yeah.

qrr	or is it real high up there?	nn	no

sd	I mean that insurance is high dollars.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	I don't plan on buying a car for many, many years

b	yeah.	sd	I have to make this one last as long as I can.

qw	What's everybody drive up there?	qy^d	in Kenosha? .

qrr	or, do you all need four wheel drives up there because of snow and everything?	ny	Yeah,

sd	it never snows down here,	 sd	Well, we don't have any snow here now.

bh	Really?	sd	It all melted.

qy^g	Kind of strange to you all,	ny	Yeah.

sd	it's like seventy degrees here right now.	ad	don't tell me that .

qw	how cold is it there?	sd	Well, actually, it's been warm,

bh	Really?	b	Yeah,

b	Huh.	sd	and it's supposed to rain tomorrow

bh	Really?	sd	And now there is no snow,

qw	But, so what is your dream car?	sd	I haven't really thought about it.

qw	What's your favorite color?	qy^d	for a car?

ny	Yeah.	sd	Probably blue. Like if it, you know, was just an average, middle class car.

bh	Blue?	sd	But if I were to get a sports car, maybe white or red .

b^r	right.	b	Yeah.

qw	So, what kind of car do you drive right now?	sd	it's a Sky Hawk Buick.

bh	Really?	sd	Eighty three,

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah,

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	I'm afraid it's not going to last me that long

b	Yeah.	sd	It's a two door.

qy	does everybody have their windows tinted up there?	nn	no,

sd	Everybody has tinted down here.	ba	I'm sure,

qy	So, you been down here before?	ny	Yep.

qy	Did you like it?	sd	It was busy .

sd	it's different I bet,	b	Yeah,

b	Right .	sd	so that was nice .

qy^t	Do you want to start?	sd	you hit,

sv	I suppose I should have,	sd	I am pro capital punishment except that I don't like the way it's done.

sd	I guess, I hate to see anyone die,	b	Uh huh.

 sv	but, I guess these people that go around and kill children and women and everything else without any remorse, I don't think they deserve to live and be supported by us the rest of their lives.	aa	I agree.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think it needs to be something, a throwback to where they did a, public execution where it's visible.

b	Yeah.	sv	something, you know, not gruesome

b	Yeah.	sv	No stays of execution.

 %	and, a ,	bf	Notoriety.

sv	They are almost like a big star.	b	yes,

b	Yeah.	sv	They know that they will probably be out in ten to twelve years.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That they are going to write a book.

b	Right.	sv	of any notoriety.

sv(^q)	Well, I, I think if they went according to, the BIBLE where it does say, an eye for an eye,	b	Uh huh.

 sv	you take a life you give yours.	b	Right.

sv	but, you know, most of these people that down right go right and do it out of pure pleasure I don't, like to see that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it is a deterrent in the sense that that person will never do it again .	ar	Well, yes,

sv	Not, not, not if he's killed he can't, do it again.	b	,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	But there's a greater chance that he'll be back out on the streets in twelve years.

sv	but, repeat, crimes maybe not the more mild ones but, you know, more severe ones especially on armed robbery and stuff where they been taking from elderly people, and not just taking the money but beating them half to death.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I guess you've got to look at something like that.	aa	Yes.

bh	Do they deserve to, remain on this earth too?	sv	Why, you know, y , you could carry it to that if they are a repeat offender

b	Right.	sd	and of course of battery or assault or, that is not a capital crime see.

b	Right.	sv	Now China and a few other countries have a little different view of that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	there is no appeals.

sd	I like the adventure of it. And the idea that we would survive long enough to get to that point and be able to do these fantastic things in space.	b	Uh huh .

sd	The STAR TREK THE NEXT GENERATION. Which it's an all new cast, but kind of the same idea, going out to new places and doing new things and finding out about different people,	b	Right .

sd	and I've always liked that show probably the very best.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then I've seen some of the STAR TREK movies.

sd	And I guess most of the shows I like are, are kind of along the same line because they're all adventure .	b	Uh huh.

sd	when I started thinking about this, those are some of my favorite shows, MCGYVER, because it's only one person there, you know, instead of a cast of people,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	but he's always going out and inventing new things out of scrap, and grabbing what he can and, you know, pieces of baling wire and a few tires and all of a sudden he's got a hang glider	sd	I don't think I've even heard of that show.

qy^d	You haven't?	qy^d	It's called MCGYVER?

ny	Uh huh.	qw	And what is he?

sd	He's like a semigovernment type agent. Who works for the Phoenix Foundation, supposedly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He took a car battery and some wire and two washers one time and made a welder.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	So he does all kinds of strange things like that.	ba	great.

qy	Do you like the, news shows, TWENTY TWENTY, SIXTY MINUTES, those kind of things?	sd	Well, I used to watch SIXTY MINUTES as a matter of fact,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, unfortunately I find getting rid of your T V set, you do throw out some of the baby, with the bath water.

aa	yeah.	sd	And I just decided I had to do that. I think, in part because it was easy for me to become addicted to it,

sd	and I usually make time in my day or my week, you know, to watch those.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, for the most part, I have small kids and I try and keep it on just a minimum amount of time, really when they're up.	b	Yeah,

sd	I like that real well.	b	Right,

sd	I don't think they have that on anymore.	sv	Well that would be a shame.

sd	but they're not making new ones.	b	Huh.

sv	But SESAME STREET is still really good.	b	Yeah.

sd	but they repeat all the old ones.	b	I see.

sd	that one tends to come on earlier in the day than I want to turn the T V on .	b	Uh huh.

sv	the timing of it is good, besides the amo , what's on.	b	Right.

sd^e	I have two little ones.	b	Yeah.

sd	So they like that.	b	Yeah,

sd	They come on like from nine to ten and then from, five to six.	b	Uh huh,

sd	They just repeat over again. Which is also,	b	Okay.

sd	and they're watching something worthwhile, while I can make dinner and do things I need to do without them under foot.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm not sure it was that great for my children,

bf	it didn't hurt them any.	aa	Yeah.

sd	The idea, I think that's one of the things I like about STAR TREK.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but the imagination of, look what we can do, you know, in the future, perhaps, this will be possible. That kind of thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	well, I think we've covered most of my favorite T V shows.	sd	Well, I'm trying to think if I ever even had a favorite one at one time,

qo	Let's see, how about, MAN FROM UNCLE?	qy^h	is that the one where he always got this tape recording that self destructed?

sd	That's MISSION IMPOSSIBLE.	b^m	MISSION,

sd	I've seen some of them on repeats.	b	Yeah.

sv	It kind of kept you guessing on, what was going to happen next .	aa	Right.

qh	How they're going get out of their latest scrape.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	every Saturday night?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I'm not old enough to recall that one .	sd	well I guess, I have to admit that I am .

sd	My T V viewing started sort of mid sixties,	b	I see.

sd	they probably didn't have a T V until I got to be, you know, grade school or so.	b	Yeah.

sd	I, I ended up watching a lot of these things on, you know, repeats in the afternoons or something.	b	Yeah.

fc	and we'll talk another time perhaps .	fc	Yeah.

sd	I'm calling from Garland, Texas.	b^m	Garland, Texas.

aa	Uh huh.	bk	All right.

qw	Where are you from?	sd	I'm in Raleigh, North Carolina.

sd	I didn't know they did it long distance.	b	Yeah,

fc	Well, it was nice talking to you .	fc	Same here.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd^c	it still echoes.	qy	Do you like to cook?

sd	I love it.	sd	I do too.

qy	Do you work?	ny	Yes.

qy^d	And have a family?	ng	I don't have a family,

sd	well for a dinner party, I think one of my favorite things is baked chicken and white wine.	sd	that's really weird that you said that because for a dinner party, mine is a, is a chicken in a marsala wine sauce,

b	Oh .	qw	so . Where did you get your recipe for it?

sd	I guess mostly out of an international cookbook that I have.	bk	okay.

qy^d	They have a T I plant in Texas, in Kingsport?	ny	Yeah,

b	uh huh.	sd	And, the cafeteria is real good about putting out recipes, you know, like once a month,

ba	great.	sd	And they put this one out

qy	What is a marsala wine a sweeter wine?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it's a, it's a red wine.

b	Okay.	sd	And, I'm trying to think what else.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, then I rub the chicken with a little bit of oil, and pour the wine sauce over it like the last twenty minutes, so that it gets just enough flavor.

sd	and then you put wine over it.	b	Right.

ba	That sounds real good.	sd	And, it's really easy too

b	Yeah.	qw	What do you use ?

qw	What do you serve with it?	br	Huh?

qw^r	What do you serve with it?	sd	I like to serve, a wild rice with it.

sd	That's what I do too .	ba	This is really neat.

sd	I've got steamed broccoli down on mine .	sv	Well, I just don't think you can go wrong with something like that.

sd	I've got a good dessert recipe.	qw	what?

qy	do you like angel food cake?	ny	Yes.

sd	I just break it up in a glass bowl,	b	Uh huh.

 sd	and then I mix up, some cream cheese and a little bit of Amaretta wi , and some cool whip,	ba	Wow.

sd	and I layer it with, angel food cake and the blueberries and then that topping.	bh	What time should we be there? .

sv	it's great.	sd	I love desserts,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I try to avoid making anything that, too fancy, that, we'd like too much and eat too much .

sd	We don't eat desserts much any more.	sd	But I guess one that I really like, that I haven't made in awhile,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you take a, sugar cookie, recipe, and spread it out on a pizza pan.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So you make it like a pizza crust,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and excuse me, you use cream cheese and a little bit of orange juice

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then you layer your fresh fruit on that.

qy^d	and pour that over it?	ny	Yeah.

ba	That sounds great.	sv	It is really good,

ba	It would be pretty.	sd	depending on the fruit you use you know, it's real colorful.

b	Yeah.	sd	Especially with like the kiwi and the strawberries.

sv	That would be pretty.	sd	but usually I just opt for brownies and vanilla ice cream .

sd	we've been cooking a lot of, turkey breasts. Because it's low fat.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I toast a piece of whole wheat bread, and then put the turkey on it and then slices of the low fat Swiss cheese	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I make a little honey mustard dressing and put over it, and pop it in the microwave.	b	Oh!

sd	I wouldn't mind serving that to anybody.	aa	No,

aa	No.	sv	it's really good,

sd	it's real quick.	sd	And we eat out a lot

b	Right.	sd	and I wish I had something a little bit different, to just zap together.

ad	mix up a little, mayonnaise with some dijon mustard, and honey until it just,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mix it until it just tastes good to me.	qy	I was going to say, do you just mix it to taste?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Okay.

sd	And it keeps in the refrigerator.	qw	How long, does it keep,

sd	it keeps a long time.	b	Yeah,

sd	it keeps a long time.	fa	I'm sorry I keep coughing.

sd	And I put a little, yogurt in it too.	qy^d	Plain?

sd	It gives it a little tang.	ba	I'll bet that is really good.

sv	It makes a great sandwich.	fe	Man,

b	are you .	sd	and I have been debating what to cook because one of my guests is a vegetarian.

sv	that's kind of hard.	sd	I think we'll try to do something a little bit,

qy^d	They'll eat fish?	b	Yeah.

sd	She'll eat fish.	sd	when they come down I'll grill those and brush on a little lemon butter sauce

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, definitely go with, it will have to be a rice dish lots of vegetables, to make up for the lack of meat.

qy	do you garden or not?	nn	No

sd	and I put it on a glass plate because it looks real pretty. Sliced tomatoes and then green pepper strips, just over it, and some red onion slices, and just a little bit of, basil, and then a little Italian dressing over it.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's delicious.	sd	That's what I was just thinking,

sd	it isn't.	qw	where did you get,

sd	And you can put some cucumber slices on too.	qw	where did you get this cook book?

sd	I got it at the Checkbook Store.	ba	Really!

sd	the creative cooking course.	sd	I'll might have to visit the State Book Store.

sd	I've never heard of it.	sd	I haven't either.

sd	This edition is published by Bonanza Books.	b	Okay.

sd	but it was not expensive.	sd	Well, the ones that I've been wanting to get,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've been wanting to get those because we eat a lot of chicken,

b@	Uh huh. We do too.	sd	and we do eat a lot of pasta.

aa	Yeah .	sd	So, we just said the other night it wouldn't be too difficult to do without red meat.

sv	I don't think it would.	sd	You know, we don't have that much of it now.

sd	but it didn't have much beef in it .	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We used to stir fry a lot, especially, a lot of chicken and a lot of rice dishes.

sd	it just takes the time to cut everything up.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh .	sd	And at least cook a couple of dishes ahead.

b	Right.	sd	So that we can have those to enjoy.

sd	One of my daughters sent me a COLORADO COOK BOOK, put out by the Junior League of Denver.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you ever seen any put out by Junior Leagues?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we have a share alike column in the paper, where people, you know, write in and share recipes or write in and say I'm looking for this recipe,

b	Right.	sd	and that's where I get a lot of my recipes.

qy^g	They are usually good aren't they?	ny	Yes.

qw	what was that? .	sd	it's a baked bean recipe.

b	Uh huh .	sd	And, you mix baked beans and Lima beans

qy	You buy the canned baked beans?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you just bake it.

ba	that sounds .	sd	And, you can add hamburger if you want, to give it a little more body.

ba	That sounds good.	sv	So, I try to always keep my eyes open because a lot of time you can find really good recipes where you wouldn't even think about it.

b	Right .	sd	So, I try to always keep a little notebook in my purse.

sd^t	and then yesterday I talked with someone from Pennsylvania,	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd^t	I tried to make calls two different days

sd	it just takes a very long time	bh	Does it?

aa	I know.	sd^t	so I just hang up. Because it keeps going through the thing over and over again.

sv	This is hilarious .	sd	But I knew as soon as I heard your voice,

qw	Well, tell me, what books have you read lately? .	^h	Well, let's see,

sd	but gee, I just don't have much time for enjoyment reading .	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it was called, SMART WOMEN, I think. or something like that.

b	Yeah.	sd	I really didn't like it at all.

b	yeah.	sd	And it was all this, divorced woman syndrome of the,

b	yeah.	sd	it was almost like a pre AIDS scare kind of thing.

ba	Interesting.	aa	It was really an interesting,

aa	yeah.	sd@	And it was all about women searching for themselves. * two utts? And, you know, a lot of hanky panky, going on.

sv	That kind of was, kind of a pop psychology time for when a lot of books like that were coming out, I think.	aa	That's right.

sv	And so that makes real sense, that that's, when it was written.	b	Yeah,

sd	I was always, just more aware of her jer , you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd*	for her young people, her books. / * one utt?	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but she has been writing for adults also,

ba	I'll be darned.	sd(^q)	and so I thought hey, I'll just try this, you know, and see what it was like.

b	Yeah.	sv	the style was very conversational.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You would have lots of conversations between people rather than any description.

b^r	yeah.	qh	You know how that is,

qy^d	I wonder if she's written anything really recently, if she's got anything in print.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I think it was an adult book.

b	Yeah.	sd	but that's the last thing I've read,

^h	when I was you know, on semester break between spring and summer	b	Yeah.

sd^e	it wasn't JANE EYRE.	qy	WUTHERING HEIGHTS?

sd^e	it was, PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, by Jane Austen.	b	yeah,

aa	yes.	aa	Yes.

sd	but as I say, I was pretty much ashamed that I hadn't read something before then.	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	sd	And then when Jennie had to read it at Gettysburg I got her someone,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think it was, some actress reading it.

ba	how interesting.	sd	You know, they had an abridged version of it on tape.

b	Yeah.	sd	And so I got that for her,

b	yeah.	sd	But I remember that was the book.

b	Yeah.	sd	And now I mean, I think it's around here somewhere,

ba	I wouldn't be, surprised,	sd	I'm just going to have to put it, in the car sometimes and listen to it.

sd	usually I try to find something long that, I'm going to,	b	Uh huh.

sd	if I have long periods of time, like Christmas vacation, or, you know, when I know I'm not going to be doing anything for a while,	aa	Yeah.

sd	The first issue doesn't come out until next year,	b	yeah.

sd	I'm doing some reviews of books, to sort of recommend whether or not a full scale review should be done for the journal,	ba	how neat.

sd	and I, just got a, I got th , this one,	ba	great.

sd	most of the stuff is on, literary criticism and philosophy, and religion and all that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's a, a biography, that is really interesting,	ba	great.

aa	it really is.	b	Oh.

sd	but I think, eventually I'll go back to it.	b	Yeah.

sd	so it's a brand new book.	bf	it's a brand new book.

b	uh huh.	ba	that would be wonderful to read something like that.

sd	and this man really shed some light on, some, aspects of Bach's genius and, and, you know, the, more sociological things, you know, like the idea that to be a musician was as much, of a family occupation as anything.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, you know, that was it was families had just loads of musicians .	b	Yes.

b	uh huh,	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	not only am I reading it to decide whether or not it should be reviewed, but also, because the board of advisers for this, journal right now doesn't have a really respected name, who's a scholar on music,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'm supposed to decide whether I think this man might be a worthy person to be you know, in that position on the board	b	yeah.

sd	but . But at least I, can tell them what I think,	ba	Wow, that's rough.

sv	so, it's real interesting.	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	sv	I think that's probably sort of a thing to do in small colleges,

sd	you know, you see a lot of small colleges doing things, like that,	b	Uh huh.

b	uh huh,	b	Yeah.

sv	it's really good public relations for small schools,	b	yeah.

sd	I think so .	b	Yeah.

sd	and so } I'm learning the names, if not the actual contents, of a lot of different poems and a lot of French people.	b	Oh.

sd	well, where, for instance, a Baudelaire poem that was written, in the French and then has been translated into English by, various people.	b	Yeah.

sd	And the translations are all so different from one another.	b^m	All different.

b	Uh huh.	ba	that's interesting.

sd	my work, is just kind of compiling, all that for him.	ba	Gosh.

aa	It's real interesting.	ba	Boy, you really lift me up to a different,

qw	And, what part of Virginia,	sd	I live down in the south western part of Blacksburg.

sd	I've been,	b	Uh huh,

na	Sounds vaguely familiar.	sd	V P I.

b	okay.	 b	Yeah,

sd	I hadn't been down in that part of the state really.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I wish we did .	sd	Well, we retired early

b	okay.	sd	so, we take trips pretty often.

qw	Where all you guys go?	sd	Well, we go to Maine every Fall

b	Uh huh.	sd	then that's kind of a family visit and a vacation all up and down the coast

b	Uh uh.	sd	and I have a daughter in Texas and one in New Mexico,

sd	All these places that I've never been .	qh	Is that right .

sd	my, fiancee's family's from Wisconsin	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I've gone up to Indianapolis on occasion to visit friends	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I usually try to combine it with, catching a couple of games somewhere.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm a big Red Sox fan,	ba	good,

bh	you're a Red Sox fan too?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I, you know, go to Cleveland to see them play, the Indians or the Red Sox,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, we do a lot of little trips around here,	qy	Ever go up in Pennsylvania in the mountains

sd	We've gone out to, a place in western Pennsylvania called Falling Water.	b	Oh.

qy	have you ever heard of it?	na	I've heard of it.

sd	and it's, really cool .	 b	Uh huh.

sd	the first time we went out there was, the day after hurricane Hugo had come through .	ba	Gee.

sd	and it was better but not a whole, lot better .	b	Uh huh.

sd	we've gone to Richland, last year and, had a good time, down there.	qh	did you?

sd	but I haven't been, down there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We're going to get down, probably down Norfork sometime this Summer, just to catch a football game actually .	b	Uh huh.

^2	spend a day and a lot of money .	 aa	Yeah .

sd	I'm not real interested in Williamsburg because of the price attached, to it.	b	Yeah.

cc	we'll, do that.	sd	You can go, to the buildings and not go in if you're not,

qy^d	so I can wander around without,	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	I just have it pay somebody to get into the buildings?	ba	That's right.

sd	I think, they do the whole with, you know, paying,	b	Yeah.

sd	they really did throw away a lot of money getting one thing or another,	b	Yeah.

sd	but they had a good time	sd	We really didn't do that really this time, we just, visited around.

sd	so I went to Disneyland about five times, in one year	b	Oh .

sd	and I really have no great urge to go back now.	qy^g	That's great as a kid though, isn't it, I mean,

sd	but the kids in Los Angeles didn't	b	Uh huh.

sd	so we basically had one of the parks.	 b	Right.

b	sure.	qy	Have you ever,

sd^e	I'd like to, sometime	ba	that's good,

sd	the fartherest south I've been on the East Coast is Charlotte.	b	Oh.

sd	you know, I thought I would go to Florida a couple Summers, ago	b	Uh huh.

sd	but never did it.	sd	Charleston is a really nice place to visit.

sd	and they've gone to, Charleston a couple of times and had a real good, time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we're getting married in about, a year	b	are you.

sd	and, our honeymoon, we're going up to this, place in Wisconsin called Door County,	b	Yeah.

sd	It's a place my girlfriend's also wanted, to go,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but there's kind of like a little thing sticking out, in the Lake Michigan,	b	Uh huh.

 sd	that's Door County .	b	okay,

sv	they call it the Cape Cod of the, the Midwest	b	Oh .

sv	so, we're thinking that'll be a lot of fun,	b	Uh huh.

sd	she had this, book of pictures from it that were really nice, kind of like a travel guide	b	Uh huh,

sd	so, that should be a lot of fun.	sd	Well, I don't know what our next trip will be, I guess our next,

b	Oh.	sd	the first one,

ba	boy.	sd	so my next trip is going to be to Texas .

ba	that'll be fun .	b	Yeah,

sv	you won't even, notice it though .	sd	Well, they'll be air conditioning anyway

qy^t	is that how you got into this, you know, data base?	b	Yeah,

sd	I mean most of the people I've talk to are from Texas,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	I go, okay, that the connection, right there .	ba	That's it,

sd^t	there's been a couple of other the people, most of whom are like me that work in speech labs that are going to use data base, eventually.	b	I see.

sd^t	actually yesterday, I ended up talking to somebody else from the same lab I'm in.	bh	Is that right.

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	and she's, working on this project too,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, we got back Monday

sd^t	I haven't had something like that happen, just getting the one guy, from the lab.	b	Uh huh.

sd	my, sister lives on Lake, Norman, just,	b	does, she,

sd	and it's, never really works out.	b	Uh huh,

b	Yeah .	 %	Well .

sd	just so we haven't been able to take really.	qy	Are you a golfer?

nn	No.	sd	Me either.

qy	Are you guys, golfers	nn	No,

sv	Except our outside , though.	sd	Just walking that's all .

sd	and I'm know real sure there are,	sd	No professionals .

sd	} I was thinking I might be minor league	sd	there's one in Salem, Salem Rebels.

b	Yeah.	sd	Salem Rebels,

ar	Buccaneers.	b^m	Buccaneers.

sd	and, I think we may be seeing them this, weekend .	qy	is that right up there in Frederick?

sd^e	I think they're out of town.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's a nice little town actually, Frederick,	sd	I've never been up there.

 sd	the Inner Harbor and the, the Aquarium and all that are very nice.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	but, it was AWAKENINGS with, Robin Williams and, Peter DeNiro.	b	Okay.

qy^d	Have you seen it.	nn	No

sv	I just have to take my hat off to Peter DeNiro.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it wears off.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it starts off with like a tic,	b	Uh huh.

sd	The way, you know, you have to just keep reminding yourself that he's an actor.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	it was very se ,	qo^d	how does he do serious.

fe	boy, he is.	sd	I've only seen him in funny stuff

sd	but that wasn't it.	b	Yeah,

qy^g	He wasn't always funny in that show, was he.	no	I didn't see the movie,

sd	That's why I was thinking it couldn't be just a totally funny part .	b	Yeah,

b	right.	b	Yeah.

qw	Well what have you seen?	sd	I think the last movie that we went out to see was DANCES WITH WOLVES.

sd	I saw it.	b	Good,

sd^e	the whole way .	sd(^q)	It was telling a friend, I said, I only cried twice,

qw^d	Where did you cry.	^h	let's see,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I cried the first time when the wagon man got killed, when they attacked him.

b^r	yeah.	sd	And, I think from there on, all the way through the movie.

sd	I cried when the horse got killed and when the wolf got killed .	sd	I don't remember when the horse got killed.

sd	when he was riding back to the settlement and they shot his horse out from under him.	b	yeah.

sd	And then the next day he looked out there and saw those buzzards, you know .	b	Uh huh.

sd	And that horse has been such a pal to him, when he was alone.	b	Yeah.

 sv	you can hear my dog .	sd	Unfortunately we don't have any animals,

sv	it really was.	sv	there was a lot of pretty scenery, too, in that movie.

b^r	uh huh.	qw^d	What did you think about the buffalo scenes.

sv	I thought it was awful, and so graphic,	aa	That was,

sv	I think we all heard the story of the slaughter of the buffalo.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Of course they raise them now, you know, to eat.	b	Uh huh,

sd	But we were both feeling so guilty about enjoying this chili after seeing that.	b	Uh huh,

sd	it wasn't .	sv	I thought the scenes when the buffalos running, though, were beautiful,

 aa	yeah.	sd	And there were so many of them.

b	really.	sv	So that was pretty.

sd	And to think about how it just changed the whole landscape, you know, you could follow this beaten down path,	b	Yeah.

sv	and it sounded like thunder and earthquakes and that sort of thing.	sd	I wonder how they kept up with them, though,

aa	I know.	sd	I guess they graze, though,

qy^d	have you seen any of the behind the scenes, of that movie.	nn	No,

sv	they tried to keep it, you know, as very close to real.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, they had to teach a wolf how to howl.	b	Oh.

sd	That's the, part they had trouble finding was wolves .	sv	I guess they're just not domesticated,

b	Yeah.	ba	Well that's funny.

sv	Well, I think we've made it.	qy^d	is that five minutes,

qy	is it five or three.	bk	Okay,

sd	I'm not either.	b	Okay,

aa	me too.	fc	Well thank you for calling.

fc^m	Well thank you.	fc	And I hope you enjoy some more good movies late ,

fc	you too.	fc	Bye, bye.

ad	Go ahead .	aa	okay .

qy^d	Well, you should have some opinions on that, then.	na	I do have some thoughts on that,

sd	Well, I guess if I were going to choose, I mean, my first consideration would be safety.	b	Right.

sd	My second consideration would be, health.	b^r	Right.

sd	And, I guess my third consideration would be, warm, environment, warm personal environment.	b	Well, right.

sv	As a matter of fact, I believe that the safety and health, issues, depend in a very direct way on the people who are working with the children.	aa	Exactly.

sd	but if he's a space cadet and doesn't watch the children, and be aware of what the safety hazards are,	aa	exactly.

sv	Maybe the right thing to do is to, when a couple has a child, then you say the first four or five years are the most important, and I think I would agree with that, they both take four or five years off and devote to parenting.	ba	That would be lovely.

sv	Get rid of all these child care centers, at least for young kids below the age of six.	b	Uh huh.

sv	in other words, they probably may end up not working at all in the twenties.	sv	Well, that's an interesting thought because,

sv	But then they have to work from age thirty or forty to age seventy or eighty or ninety.	sv	That would be okay .

sv	and so what that means is you don't have to be physically powerful to work.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I believe that, mental acuity is easy to maintain, if you just simply continue to exercise your mind.	b	Oh.

sd	For instance, jobs that require use of heavy machinery and things like that where there's, endangerment to their own life and other people's lives.	aa	I agree with that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I definitely think they should be tested.

qo	Well, how do you feel about, companies drug testing prior to hiring?	sd	I was tested, within my company.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I feel like it's really just within the United States.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And once you've established the fact that you're not a drug user and especially if your personality proves that you're not. I think they could, save money by not doing that. You know, every time,

qw^d	Well, what about random testing, though.	b	Oh.

qy	Do you feel like that's an invasion of certain people's rights if not everyone is tested?	ng	not if it's done fairly.

sd	If it's random, then it's random	b	Yeah.

sv	and that's not necessarily fair.	sv	Well, they might tell you it's random.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But then, you know, it's kind of like a lottery.

sd	and it's not random.	b	I see.

sd	well, I think all college players have to do an initial drug test at a certain point prior to the season	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it's almost discretionary on the coach's part of each individu , individual institution to identify the ones that have the problem.	bk	I see.

sd	and the ones that test positive have to retest after a certain period of time.	b	Right.

na	Well, not being a drug user I don't have a problem with that personally	b	Right.

sv	If someone's having personal problems for some reason that's causing them to behave differently	b	Right.

sv	I mean if someone assumed that of me, I would be upset.	b	Right,

sv	and it's and it's based on a perception as how a drug user would behave when some drug users behave, normal, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think almost the only way that drug testing can be done fairly is if it's across the board from the janitors to the executive management.	b	Right.

qw	What type of job do you have?	sd	Well, I'm an environmental engineer

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I've been drug tested three times

qy	Well, does your job require you to drive company equipment or to operate any type of machinery that might endanger someone?	nn	No.

b	Uh huh.	sv	so, see it's really strange.

sd	the job I have now, requested my, medical record from my old company	b	uh huh.

 sd	so I don't know if I wasn't drug tested based on that or because the man who hired me didn't request the drug test, because I know that my company does drug testing on occasion.	b	Right.

sv^e	I don't think they can force another company to not drug test me just by saying that I didn't, I mean,	b	Yeah.

sd	They just tested me once.	b	Right,

sd	so it was very important that they make sure their employees, especially linemen were clean.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I know they test most of the service people fairly regularly just across the board.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's a rotation.	bk	okay.

sd	but again, it depends on what job you're in.	b	Yeah.

sd	and the men that drive the trucks with the guys that fix the power lines aren't tested as much.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but see, they make that clear to them as they hire those guys what the drug testing schedule is.	b	I see.

^q	and we'll test you every three months thereafter while you work here.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's made very clear upon hiring.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Well, have we spent our at least five minutes?	ny	Yeah

bk	Okay.	sv	I think so.

b	Okay.	b	Okay,

fc	Bye bye	fc	Bye.

ad	Start.	qw	What kind of recycling programs do you have in Rowlett?

sd	and I think they've got some kind of container for aluminum.	 sd	Plano's doing real good on that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and of course it doesn't fit right now.

b	Yeah.	sd	But now we start in May, breaking it down,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we put that in disposable bags,

sd	but they're supposed to initiate that sometime in the next couple of months.	qy	Well, does your,

sd	so most of the things we have are through our cafeteria.	qy	Well, down in the cafeteria do they have any place where you can put your, you know, pop cans, and things like that?

sd	so, mainly what they serve in there is juice and coffee and tea.	bf	So you don't have much choice there.

sd	not really.	sd	Well I work at, J C Penny

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they're going to recycle them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then like, the week before that, they said go through your cupboards and any food that is still good, bring it in

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they put them right near where they have the time cards.

b	Yeah.	sd	And it works great.

ba	That's good.	sd	So they're really going at it,

sd	I noticed at the library or someplace this past, month, month and a half ago, they were having a speaker, talk about doing lawn work and, how important it is to cut your lawn without a bag. Just to kind of mulch it, rather than bag it up, because of all the grass that's being bagged and being hauled away by the garbage trucks and stuff,	 b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's, I guess a lot more ecological to just mow the grass and let it work it's way back into the soil.	qy	Well, did you watch the program the other night on, was it SAVE AMERICA?

 na	I saw part of that.	sv	It was good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I've already gone to,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I didn't realize that was the biggest waste of water.

b	Yeah.	sd	That was surprising to me.

sd	I wonder about some of the products that they don't take, like some of the plastics and things that they don't take. why they couldn't do more recycling with those.	sd	Well, I was in, Bizmart the other day,

b	Yeah.	sd	but people aren't buying it,

sd	but the cost is like, double or sometimes triple, the regular fertilizers and things you buy.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but the cost is kind of prohibitive.	sd	Now, see that's recycling, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that people would use this stuff over again.

ba	it's a good idea.	sd	It's like when he was saying, which one was recyclable, which was reusable,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the recycle ones are better to use,

ba	true.	sv	And if we're going to really do something, they ought to put that stuff out bigger for people to see it.

b	Yeah.	 sv	You have to get enough nerve to ask somebody to take something off the top shelf.

sd	I think it's in Canada they're using, recyclable milk jugs, plastic milk jugs, as a reinforcement for roads. For road repairs.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, they don't expand or contract when the weather changes,	b	Oh.

sd	and this is kind of an unusual use for that type of thing.	sd	along that same line, they said they were using,

b	Huh.	sd	And I thought, well, that's good.

b	Yeah.	^h	something else was made out of old tires,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And just anything, to, you know, recycle rather than keep throwing it away,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm forever going back out to my car to pick up my bags to bring them and take my garbage back out.

sv	I think that's just the biggest problem is keeping it in front of the public so they understand how serious the problem is, and how important it is to do that.	sd	You know what I'd like to see a little more.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but if they get the little tiny kids saving it now, in five years, when they get bigger, it'll work a little bit more, too.

ba	True.	sv	we've all got to do it right now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't think I can keep my own garbage.

sd	and I've become I guess more of a country fan over the years.	qy^d	When you say that you grew up, in the sixties I take it that was the, teenage type years

sd	I was born in fifty	bk	Okay,

b	Yeah.	sd	essentially I was one of the nerdy types in high school really which meant that for one reason or another I didn't pay much attention to music,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think in a way one could talk about Simon and Garfunkel that way because they do tend, to have a dramatic or story approach to their music, usually tend to have some good or bad moral to it.

b	Yeah.	sd	it's something that interests me, combined with the classical tastes I had mentioned.

 b	Uh huh.	sd	I listen to some country and western

sd	it's got, basically an easy, rhythm and tone.	b	Right.

sd	Chicago had some things,	b	Right.

sd	in fact most of my C D s are classical music.	sd	I find it very interesting that some television shows that I enjoy I particularly like the music.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I found that I really like CHINA BEACH

b	Yeah.	sd	and I, I've, THIRTY SOMETHING I'm particularly interested,

sv	our generation was, so in tuned to music of that time that we identify goodness or badness with, things now with the music that's behinds them.	ba	That could well be.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and if you recall how it goes downtown,

 b	Right.	 +	ta, da, da, da,

b	Uh huh.	 sd	and my family now knows if they come into my study and, I happen to have had a tough day at work and maybe I'm trying to get a project done, at school, and I'm humming or whistling in a sort of mad crazy way the tune to Downtown they know to just stay away,

sd	That's their signal.	sd	They can hear the unconscious music signal behind it,

b	Yeah.	ba	that's right.

qw	When did you first take your, first piano lesson?	sd	probably about first grade,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I have, returned about every four or five years to thinking that I would like to do something about it.

sd	It is a time consumer.	aa	It is.

b	Yeah.	sd	keys and things are something to me that remain a mystery no matter how many times I bang on them.

b	Right.	sd	but in a innate music sense there just seems to be something missing there which is always frustrating for me since I have pretty high math aptitude

sd	and turns out I was the only one who really had an interest in it and never got to,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, I can just drift off into some other world just listening to that for hours if I ever have the time to do that,	b	,

sd	but probably not.	sv	So we both have a secret background that says somehow or another we just knew we were piano players and never got a chance,

aa	No.	sv	That's the most fascinating thing .

fc	Well, it's a pleasure talking with you.	fc	And you, sir,

fc	Best, of luck in your graduate school.	fc	take care.

qy	Well, what is your view, do you consider the Soviet Union a threat?	ng	I don't know that it's so much a military threat anymore as a,

b	Sure.	sv	it takes awhile to get used to something,

sv	it's hard to know anymore if it's a threat one way or another because, it used to be so, much in the past that whatever the top said the rest fell, you know, rank and file in behind it.	 b	Uh huh.

sv	And now that with Gorbachev is introducing more, I guess, or expressions of freedom, it doesn't look as though, you know, everybody's following the same pattern.	b	Yeah.

sv	you never know, well, Gorbachev's future is like whereas, whereas in the past it was seen as, you know, whoever was the head of the communist party was seen as, you know, untouchable.	b	Yeah.

ba	Exactly.	sd	And, , you know, I'd like to think that that isn't true

b	Right.	sv	It's just the whole thing is so incomprehensible,

sv	Well, it's amazing just because of the drain that's been on, you know, both economies that our economy of course, been able to, withstand that a little better,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's just some ungodly number just to support the military machine.	b	Uh huh,

sv	the U S isn't the threat that we've always made them out to be, you know, even if they're saying that beneath the doors.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But it's hard to thing that just one person can bring that much of a radical change in that short of period.	 b	Yeah.

sv	Even if it is, you know, the best thing in the long run, it just steps on too many people's toes, who are comfortable with the way the situation is.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	What I haven't seen is you know, a great stepping back in the military, situation.

b	Right.	sv	You know, it's one thing, you know, to let us go ahead and sort of disarm

^2	Expend?	sd	Of course, it didn't turn out that way.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, that may have been a, a kind of far out way of thinking about it I don't know.

sv	Well, it's interesting, anymore the world's getting so small that it doesn't seem to tolerate anymore any kind of the expansionism, philosophy that was here you know, twenty years ago.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, it's easier for us to say, you know, to an Iraq, you know, you can't do this, get back, you know, or we're going to force you.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Whereas, you know, if the Soviet Union would have, who knows what taking over Mongolia or something like that, will we have been more just rhetoric, rather than going in there officially or, you know, physically and try to remove them.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the tanks came in and, you know, pretty much took care of that.

sv	and I think he's actually, honestly trying to do some change.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I don't believe that he, in this first pass around, you know, being the first one to really turn things around or attempt to is going to be allowed to get away with it either.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	well, the social structure of the Soviet Union, you know, it's, it's coming apart at the seams.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	You know, and I've heard people say, well, you know, it's just like the American Civil War, will there be a union or not?

b	Uh huh.	sd	man , those people didn't vote to become part of the Soviet Union,

sd	you know, if I'm a Soviet and if part of, you know, south, let's say South Dakota wanted to you know, succeed, am I going to stand for that.	b	Yeah.

sd	Now I realize that the origins are different and that we all joined under a common direction and a common bond to begin with, and that they may have been forced, I'm not that familiar with their future,	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's easy to believe that they were probably more forced into a pact than, a volunteer or willingness to join.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And some of the countries that were forced in at later dates is the three Baltic countries, you know, came in the forties,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, well, it's not that they came in, it's they were conquered by the Germans,

sd	And then, just never given back.	^2	and then the Russians even, took it back from the Germans and never bothered to give it back, you know,

aa	Yep.	sv	so. That's a, a little different situation.

sv	the whole idea if you look at the Russian history and I guess all countries the way it used to be is, the only way to truly protect your borders was to have a buffer.	b	Uh huh.

sv	well, I guess like, with, Israel is a perfect example.	b	Yeah.

sd	but, you know, as you can see with the scuds go right over there.	b	Uh huh.

sv	there's very little that binds you anymore in today's technology.	sd	I knew a lot of guys in the service when they were sent to Germany they said that's the safest place in the world because if a war starts, all the bombs are going to go right over Germany

sv	that's very interesting, never thought of that.	b	Yeah,

 b	Uh huh.	 sv(^q)	You know, some reason or other, you know, is, it's kind of a strange thing we've been trying to make something like this happen for so long that when it finally happens you say, whoa, wait a minute,

sv	Nobody knows what to do.	qh	you know. What's, what's, what's really happening here.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But you wonder how, well, this thing,

sd	I get confused between which is the Soviet provinces versus which are the Russian provinces, versus what are,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, and these were all the Soviet economists, you know, they had some real fancy names for them.

b	Right.	b	yeah,

^2	as a,	sd	you know, so there would be nineteen, rather than one.

b	Sure.	sd(^q)	And, the United States said, well, that mean we get to bring in forty eight, you know.

sd	but it's merely an economic now.	b	Yeah,

aa	exactly.	sd	you can change the name of something

b	Uh huh.	sd	Although, I've seen some evidence that, you know, the, the Russian soldiers are,

aa	Exactly	sd	and now all of a sudden they're going home

qh	, what are we going to do with all the soldiers over there?	b	Yeah.

qh	What's going to happen to the economies that are no longer have a million plus people in the indu , you know, in each country from the U S ...	b	Yeah.

qw	what do you feel is the major change that's been going on?	sv	That's a tough question.

sv	they no longer feel it's no big deal to stay home and raise your family any more.	sv	Well it has no credibility any more.

sv	and I think, I think that's really sad, because I think there's going to be a generation of kids that are going to grow up raised by somebody else.	sd	Well, I'm a school teacher,

sd	and I wouldn't change a minute of it for anything .	ba	good for you,

sv	But, I can't, I can't help but think that eventually the pendulum's going to swing back the other way again.	sv	Well, you know, it's interesting, because when I heard the topic, I was thinking,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and one woman had four children,

b	yeah,	sv	that's frightening

ba	it's sad,	sd	and, you know, it was almost from the audience participation it was almost a social issue, you know

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	people were siding with the husband, saying, You've got to go to work, if you have these four children, you've got to support them,

sv	I think too many people feel they need to live a more extravagant life style than necessary	ba	That's true.

sv	I think that they would from the, you know, attention or whatever	ba	That's true.

sv	and I think it's going to have to swing back the other way, because I think we're going to have an awful lot of kids who are going to have major problems from all this.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	^h	and, gosh, I'm trying to think,

qw	what grade do you teach?	sd	Six, seven and eight.

qy	Are you out,	sd	In Richardson.

sd	we're in Plano here.	bk	okay.

qy	but you know, do you ever, do you ever see problems, you know, that you feel you know, that the kids are left alone too much,	ny	yeah.

qy	He stays at school?	ny	Uh huh.

qy	And the school allows that?	na	Well, he stays with me

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I have a tendency to work late.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so he stays with me until five thirty and then goes home

ba	my,	sd	and, you know, I have lots of kids, because they know I'm there late

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm a slow mover to say the least,

^2	No mother to talk to.	sv	and, it makes a difference,

qrr	or do you feel there's just going to be a big push you know, for more and more day care type situations?	no	I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they're back to work,

b	Yeah.	sv	and we lived without them,

sv	drug testing procedures would have to be refined.	b	Uh huh.

sd	From what I've seen on the news , there's a pretty good size problem with poor accuracy, poor procedure in, drug testing.	sd	I didn't realize that.

sd	and, turns out it was a prescription. Or people getting somebody else's blood test.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Same sort of problem that happens sometimes is some of these, like AIDS tests and such.	b	Okay.

b	Yeah.	sd	every now and then there's an error

aa	yeah.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	Everyone coming in, goes through the drug testing procedure

b	Uh huh.	sd	So if they test for drugs.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm, I can't even remember if we do random sampling anymore.

b	Yeah .	sd	but I guess you're always on call for it.

sd	I not very long ago worked for Wal Mart	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's not a random	b	Uh huh.

sd	as each employee comes in part of the hiring procedure is a blood test .	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I think the big problem, though, is they send these off to large labs	b	Uh huh,

sd	and then they have thousands and thousands of samples that, going through it in a day and bottles get mixed up, things like that.	qy^d	So your big beef with it is the,

b	Yeah.	sv	Make sure it's a lot safer because a couple of people are going to be discriminated against unfairly or whatever.

b	Yeah.	 +	I, I tend to agree with you David.

sd^e	Sam's is part of Wal Mart.	b	Okay,

b	Yeah.	sv	Good company,

ba	yeah.	sd	he's telling me about good profit sharing and all that,

b	Uh huh.	ba	It's good news .

sd	and you have a little taken out of your check each payday to put against, {F uh, stock portfolio. not portfolio, just, you know, against Wal Mart stock.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, you can build a pretty fair amount of stock after a while.	b	Yeah,

sd^t	you're supposed to get five minutes.	bk	Okay,

qy	you were tested for drugs as as, as you got into T I?	na	Right,

qy	now, were you asked to wait before starting to work until the drug test came through	nn	no,

bk	Okay .	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	qo	what about,

sd	and they weren't testing any of those who were already working.	b	Right.

 o	Okay.	qw	Where do you live?

sd	In Plano.	qy^d	In Plano?

qw	Where do you live?	sd	In Dallas.

bk	okay .	sd	the air pollution isn't too bad in our area.

sd	but, it was quite evident that, it was a real brown area	sd	I haven't either.

 %	and,	sv	Well, I think it would be terrible to live in an area like that

b	Yeah.	sv	Particularly in the areas where there are industries, where they are burning a lot of coal, and oil more up north, I guess,

b	Yeah .	sv	I think it's a bigger problem. With the car pollution, anti pollution devices,

sd	but they were losing a lot of, trees and a lot of,	qy^d	From acid rain?

na	I guess. from something that the car was giving,	sd	I think in the emissions, it gives off gases which combine up in the atmosphere, and form a weak acid.

b	Yes,	sd	It just makes the rain fall on the acid side

b	Yeah.	sd	What's interesting, several years ago, I took a course, on, well,

b	Yes.	h	So, I don't know.

b	Yes.	qy^g^c	Well, we've got a problem on the line, don't we.

sd	I don't know why.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, oddly enough I thought our part of the country was ideal.	sd^c	I can't hear you at all for all this static.

qy^c	Can you hear me?	sd^c	Now I can again.

sd	and we had thought this part of the country would be ideal for solar homes and solar energy	b@	Uh huh. .

sd	That surprised me because I think, we have a tremendous amount of, sunny days.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, that was a problem that they were still working on.	b	yeah.

b	Yes.	 +	in the future, I think, maybe to help in some ways.

b	Yes.	sd	It's just we can't control it.

ba	I hope so .	sd	I do to.

sv	I mean, you've already mentioned several things, I think, just the change in attitude and the fact that more people are aware there is a problem and more people are interested in,	sv	We have one earth, to live on

b	Yes .	sv	and we got to take care of it.

sv	Well, and for the future generations, too.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yes.	sv	And so, if we can raise you know, generations with those concerns, we'll solve a lot of our problems.

qw	and how do you hold to yours? .	nn	No,

ba	Well, that's good .	sd	And, and it's sort of always worked.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but that depends, you know, on the individual if they can I guess have self control.

sd	and that was the envelope system. Where you go ahead and decide about how much based on what you did last month that you are going to spend,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And she even writes down on the envelope as she subtracts and kind of debits on each envelope, what she's buying.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then at the end of the pay period, if she has any left, that much is for fun or entertainment.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and a seems like the problem that they were having of all the things that worked was not planning enough for the incidentals that we couldn't think about.	b	Yes.

sv	You know, the accidental fee or the car repair or the things that weren't supposed to be every month.	b	Well, yeah,

sv	It was a hassle .	sd	well, we've been married almost thirty years now

ba	that's kind of hard .	aa	Right.

sd(^q)	You kind of think this is got to str ,	aa	No.

qy^g	you kind of divide it in fourths in a way, don't you?	nn	No.

b	Right.	sd	or you get paid the last day or next to the last day.

b	Right.	sd	You pay all your bills

sd	And we're going to go ahead and try to just live on what we earn instead of guessing ahead of what we probably will have next month .	b	Well, yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	or we are paying them off now.

sd	we're not there yet.	sd	there was a time when maybe we didn't take all of them off,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but you just sort of had to watch what you put in, because you hate to pay those finance charges, when you see how much it is.

aa	That's right.	sd	I mean I'm a substitute teacher,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it works for me

qy	you know what I'm saying?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I know when we were planning to buy the new car and we hadn't had a car payment in five years, we had to go ahead and write down each month what it was that every penny went for, to see how much was going to be left,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that was a real eye opener.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's kind of hard.	sd	Well, we eat out a good deal at this point.

bh	Do you?	sd	I started subbing just to go on a vacation and saved, all that money because I knew that you couldn't, you know, spending, five thousand dollars on a vacation, or whatever.

b	Right.	sd	We were going to go for ten weeks, in nineteen eighty

b	Oh.	sd	so I started, working in nineteen eighty seven and just saved, for three years.

b	Uh huh.	sd	what minuscule amount I made

ba	and you enjoyed it better probably.	aa	Yes.

b	Yeah, .	sv	And so I think that that's difficult for most people,

aa	I think so too.	sd	and, you know, you never could afford anything although we could afford everything if he wanted to.

qy^d	So if you're out like in a department store and there's a sale, you're just real careful not to let your urges get hold of you?	ny	Yes.

sd	and I'm working on it.	sd	And I never worried about saving money because we're in the savings plan at work

sv	And I think though that we need to have some liquid around that you don't have to go through the company to get .	b	Uh huh.

qy	You know?	sd	Well, we never had too much of that

b	Yeah.	sd	but then we never had any really emergencies that,

b	Yeah.	sd	And we didn't buy really new or expensive cars.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they were mainly used cars.

sd	My husband said the other day it was the worst mistake we ever did to buy a new car because it wasn't worth it from the day after.	b	Yeah,

qy	do you think we've been here to in ,	no	Well, each time they used to call in and tell me their space is limited and to please,

sd	I was waiting so long for it to find somebody.	sd^t	It's on your favorite T V shows and why.

qw	well, so what is your favorite T V show?	sd	MAJOR DAD.

qy	you like that one?	sd	I love it,

sv	You know, it's funny how you can just get in a mode where you only watch certain shows	aa	That's ri ,

sd	and, you know, there's only a few that I like to watch routinely.	qw	What kind do you like to watch?

sd	so I don't get to watch it very much.	qy	WONDER YEARS?

sd^e	that's my favorite.	sd	I like both of those real much also.

sd	I guess I like the shows that really have a real sense of, I don't know, honesty or sort of a purity value, I guess.	aa	I do, too.

aa^r	right.	sd	and, that's one of the reasons,

sd	my wife really likes that show,	sd	which just, I was, I always felt was wonderful

b	Uh huh.	sv	and so many of them nowadays, like I said, I think are just,

b	Yeah.	sv	they go after, well,

sd	like one of my favorite shows used to be HAPPY DAYS	b	Yes.

sv	but, you know, Richie always used to be you know, just so honest and pure I guess,	b	Yeah.

sv	and when he left the show, you know, it seemed to be missing that part of it	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I never did like it after that	b	Uh huh.

sv	There always seems to be that kind of value in there somewhere.	aa	Yeah,

ny	uh huh.	sd	I enjoy those also, almost as much to a certain extent.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, we enjoy that,

qy	So you're going to watch a game tonight?	ny	yeah,

qy	So do you have a favorite for the series or anything?	sd	probably the Pirates,

b	uh huh.	sd	otherwise I really don't care that much,

qy	Do you live in the Dallas area?	sd	live in Plano.

sd	I'm a big Saint Louis Cardinals fan	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, they they've come from so far down,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I really would like to see them do well.	b	Well, yeah,

sv	maybe they'll make it, I don't know	b	Right.

sd	and her daughter was talking about birth control, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, she's only seven years old,	sv	so many of them now, you know, it just seems like they feel like they have to stick that stuff in,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I have adult tastes now,

b^r	yeah.	sd	I like things that, are wholesome, I guess.

sv	you know, and you can kind of relate to it you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I enjoy that a lot	b	Yes,

sv	but everybody perceived him that way, and stuff	b	Uh huh.

sv	but as soon as, you know, he went to move in with another girl, the show just died	b	Yeah.

qw	What did you wear to work today?	^h	let's see.

qy	So, can you dress pretty casually?	na	on occasion. On occasion.

b	Yeah.	sd	I do vary.

sd	Well, I, run a business out of my home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I tend to get up in the morning, put on, sweats, do whatever I want to do with the kids, then whenever I have a meeting with a client, I'll put a suit on. And then come home and get back into regular clothes again .	b	Yes.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I predominantly wear flat shoes.

sd	I've recently, tried to update my wardrobe, trying to put suits together that I can interchange, the, jackets and the blouses and all that a lot.	b	Right.

sd	I can only have a limited wardrobe, since I'm only, working part time right now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but still, it gives it some variety. Add different blouses and scarves and belts and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you like to wear jeans most of the time?	ny	yeah

sd	It's nice you can wear shorts, especially on a day like today when it's so hot.	b	Yeah,

^2	Dress shorts.	aa	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And sometimes I wear a blazer with them,

b	Yeah.	sd	their attire is always the same, you know. Suits or slacks, you know, jeans, whatever.

b	Yeah,	sd	but I'm really the only woman, I guess, at work that does that,

b	Yeah,	sd	In fact, I, I just got a new outfit as a gift that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I think that'll be good for work, too.

sv	It'll be comfortable.	b	Yeah.

sd	so my wardrobe has changed quite a bit.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I have a closet full of sweaters.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	You live in Virginia, now?	ny	Uh huh.

ba	that's interesting.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, you know, I do wear a lot of sweaters and things like sweater dresses.

sd	Today it's eighty eight degrees.	ba	my .

sd	Needless to say, my sweaters have been hung in the closet for quite a while now .	b	Uh huh.

sd	Today was, definitely a shorts day around here.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's nice to get, out and about.	b	Uh huh.

 sv	Sounds good.	bh	Okay?

fc	It was nice talking to you.	fc	Okay,

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

o	Okay.	o	Okay.

sd	I was trying to get my children quiet for a minute.	b	Okay.

sv^t	Well, credit cards, boy, that's an easy topic,	aa	Ye , Yes,

qy^g	isn't it .	sv	it is .

sd	I guess I've had some good experience and some bad experience with them.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, I do fairly good until I go in the store and I see something I want . You know not need, want.	b	Yeah.

sv^m	There's a big difference there.	b	Yeah,

sd	But most of mine that I use is strictly gasoline.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's too easy to run into the gas station.

sd	it sure is especially when you work out of town and everything, that way .	b	Uh huh.

sd	At least that's for me.	b	Yeah,

sd	and kind of knock on wood I haven't yet, not bad.	b	Yeah,

sd	but , I try to keep it pretty reasonable.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, but I haven't really had any bad problems with credit cards.

sv	And then they have bad drawbacks, too. I mean high interest,	aa	Yeah.

sd	it's like paying twice.	ba	That's true,

b	Yes,	 %	I try to,

b^r	yeah.	sd	And you don't have an annual fee there,

sd	but right now, we're just more or less at American Express, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that way we can go ahead and pay it off when it comes in.	b	Yeah,

b	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	And when you pay fifteen dollars a month it sure takes a long time.	b^m	Takes a long time,

ba	It sure does.	sv	And now without the benefits of being able to deduct interest off your income tax that's, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Of course it's been going down for a number of years,

fc	And maybe we'll get to talk again.	fc	Okay.

fc	bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qw^d	and I sort of wondered what thoughts you had on that area.	sv	the first one is we need people in there that understand, numbers. The numbers that are being thrown around when we're talking in trillions of dollars. which is an astronomical sum

b	Uh huh.	sv	and the people that are talking this numbers have no concept of what that number means.

qrr	or are you talking about others?	sd	The elected people.

b	Uh huh.	sv	our, our Senate and Congress and people that deal everyday and what's going to be done with those monies and don't really understand what that is or how a budget even works.

b	Uh huh.	sv	we need to elect people that are more,

qw	how would you achieve that?	sv	Well, let's make them have a degree in or economics.

qy	So you would trust the decision making economists?	nd	Well ,

sd	Sometimes called the dismal science.	b	Yeah.

b	Yes.	sv	the, lobbyists, needs them to be eliminated, from Congress.

b	Yes.	sv	They don't make pragmatic decisions.

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, or they tack on this, pork bellies and do things that are good for their area to pass something that is not good for the country.

sv	I mean right now lobbyists require to register you'd just say, make them all .	na	I definitely would.

qy^d	No causes that you think the lobbyists would be good for?	sv	I think that any company or anything that wants to contribute to a fund should be able to do that, and be registered with what they ever contribute.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But they should not have a one on one relationship with the people making the decisions that affect them.

b	Uh huh.	sv	that's a conflict of interest as far as I'm concerned.

b	Yeah.	sv	When you are talking again, billions and trillions of dollars you're jeopardizing the future of the country, for today.

qy	Would you be against any deficit spending?	na	I think to bring it in line you are going to have to have a generation that's going to really bite the bullet to bring it in line.

b	Uh huh.	h	I forget the figures on the interest rate

b	Yeah.	 sv	Part of the problem is we don't loan from ourselves.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I, I really feel that, that is part of the problem that we've let things get so out of control that we don't want to put the brakes on them.

qw	But what practical steps could one take?	sd	by having a, a budget is feasible, that is reasonable.

qw	and, and how will you, make that actually happen?	ba	of course.

b	Uh huh.	sv	One thing we could do is give a ten percent income tax.

qy^d	no, deductions, nothing.	na	That's right.

sv	Just ten percent.	bf	You pay a ten percent income tax.

aa	Yep.	sv	That's what you pay

b	Right.	sv	if you make forty dollars, you're going to pay four dollars.

qr	and is it your expectation that that would raise the total revenues collected or lower them or what?	nd	I don't know that it would or wouldn't.

sd	mostly I do needlepoint, I guess.	b	really.

sd	well, I've made a lot of baby gifts .	b	Uh huh.

sd	like, especially lately there's been so many babies, bibs and blankets, and things like that. Wall hangings,	qy	Do you ever keep any of your stuff?

nn	No .	sd	I do crochet and a lot of, things like that,

sd	A friend of mine gave me a clock kit	ba	Ooh.

sd	and I, kept that because she gave me that.	sv	that would be definitely something you'd want to keep.

sd	And it's real neat.	qr	was the whole face done or just the numbers, and, and, } like minute marks?

sd	but the minute marks are done, they're like hearts.	b	Oh.

sd	I really like doing stuff like that.	sd	I did some needlepoint years ago,

qw	what's that?	sd	Well, it's an Italian, needlework, using the

b	Huh.	sd	and you weave intricate patterns and use different colors.

 qw	what kind of things did you do?	sd	What I did, when I was doing that was mostly pillows, you know, for sofas and so forth,

b	Oh.	sd	It's one of those things

b	Yeah,	sd	I was so proud of them when I got them finished,

qw	What did you call that?	sd	Bargello.

sd	I've probably seen it, though,	sd	I suspect you, I suspect you have.

sd	I use to do a lot more and sell at craft shows.	sd	Me, too.

b	Really .	aa	Yes .

sd	it is.	qh	How did you know to choose this subject, tonight.

sd	They make them hard, you know?	qy^d	Like fabric that's been stiffened.

ny	Yeah.	aa	Yes.

sd	I mean, I would really like to do those	sd	I've seen some,

b	yeah.	sd	When I do, crochet, it's usually the lacy Victorian type things like that,

b	Oh.	sd	and I stiffen those with a glue mixture.

b	Oh.	sd	There's bound to be some kind of fabric stiffener like that that's very similar that's not going to melt too much with, high humidity, in a room,

sd	That's I think that's what my concern was, was it really sure, and how they would last.	qy	Do you know what my concern is?

ba	You're right.	sd	That's terrible.

sv	That's funny.	sd	So many of my crafts,

b	Yeah .	sd	And most of my things are dust collectors .

ba	I know.	sd	So first thing I think of is how easy would this, thing be to clean.

sd	so I don't have as much time.	b^m	you don't have time.

sd	and I have two children also .	sv	You definitely don't have time.

sd	but once I get started, I can't put it down.	sd	I have a similar problem.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And so I end up lots of time not doing anything at all.

sd	I started a project, it's been over a year ago that I swore I was going to finish for somebody for Christmas.	qy^g	You just didn't say which Christmas, right .

^q	well, I didn't tell you what year .	qw	What was this project?

sd	You know, it's just so hard.	qy^d	Now this is done in the needlepoint?

sd	and so since it's counted, you know, it's really a lot of work.	aa	Yes.

b	Yeah.	sd	I have done a little bit of that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so I've got to have almost total silence.

ny	Yep.	sv	It does not sound like an easy one to finish.

sd	I'm probably going to hear about it the rest of my life .	sv	I'm sure you'll get it done,

sd	It's just hard.	^2	Just hard finding the time that can be dedicated.

sd	So it's no big deal for me to pick those up and do them.	qy	do you use I mean, like a book of patterns,

sd	and I just go with those.	o	Okay.

sd	But some things, especially letters, if they suggest certain colors for letters, I just go with whatever I want to.	sd	That's what I would do, too.

b^r	yeah.	sd	Or whatever I have.

sd	I made a little, little thumb print and made it a bunny.	b	Ooh.

sd	I mean, just did a thumb print. You know.	qy^d	What. With ink?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	okay.

sd	That was so simple .	ba	that sounds really neat.

sd	It didn't take anything at all.	sd	did you use, like, a stamp pad and ink.

b	Uh huh.	sd	just like being finger printed ...

qw	Robert what substances do you think are the most, likely causes of air pollution?	fe	gee,

b	Right.	sd	So, I believe them

qy	do you think that those are bigger contributors than things like acid rain and some of the pollutants that come from, industrial areas, factories and so on?	no	I don't really know,

qy^d	and you, so you understand smog .	na	I understand it very well

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I can remember etched clearly in my mind, flying and coming up above the smog layer at about three thousand feet and looking back down and really being unbelieving at, what looked like a,

ba	Wow.	sv	it just looked liked peanut butter.

ba	My word.	sd	Thick and brown and so on.

qy^d	And that was, a few years ago?	na	This was quite a few years ago.

qy^d	I wonder if it's any better now. Because California has such strict rules, about emissions and so on.	sd	People say that it is somewhat better.

sd	they were talking about shutting it down, if it didn't comply and so on.	qy	So did it burn coal?

sd	so I don't know.	b	Yeah.

sd	But they said that it really caused so much smog over, the Grand Canyon in the winter months that they couldn't do the, piloting, you know, the helicopter trips and that sort of thing. Which would be horrible, because there's nothing,	b	Yeah.

sv	It would be a shame to ruin it.	b^r	Yeah.

qw	what do you think individuals could do, or society could do to alleviate this problem.	sv	I don't know whether we could do a whole lot as individuals. maybe just take good care of our cars, and make sure we keep our pollution devices clean and all that sort of thing.

b	Right.	sd	apart from that, I don't know what we can do as individuals.

sv	but if we are concerned about it then we certainly can, force, government, that we elect to deal more seriously with it.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I do think that, Congress has backed down much too much on some of the air pollution standards.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	and then we still live with air pollution.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	and that's probably how we ought to do it. being individually responsible in order to be group responsible.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	And in the case of air pollution, it simply might turn out at some point down the road, to be so costly to have to live with air pollution in terms of health problems, and everything else that we'll spend the money that's necessary to get rid of the source of it.

sv	and probably the only way that can happen is for, governments to realize that they have to pay if companies don't.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, I don't know how long that will take.	sv	People also have to realize they can't have their cake and eat it.

b	Sure.	sv	Well we don't want that either.

aa	right.	qh	How about investing in the sun.

b	Right.	sv	I probably wouldn't mind if it really came down to it.

sv	now is a wonderful time to smack a fifty cent a gallon tax on gasoline, so that we don't, run into the kind of problems we recently had	aa	yes,

sv	So instead, we spend billions of dollars going to war.	aa	Yes.

sv	Certainly oil was a big factor.	aa	certainly,

sv	and I think that's probably going to happen with such things as air pollution, when we get serious about our motors in our automobiles then maybe, you know, we'll have a little bit of help.	b	Yeah.

qy	do you have any air pollution in your area?	ng	There's not really a lot here in Raleigh.

qy^d	Your talking about from the middle states, that have more factories and so on.	ny	Yeah.

sv	I lived in this area for about twenty five years and I think I can tell a difference in the comfort level, particularly in the summer. you know, when it gets hot, and you have, that kind of a pressure from the pockets of air, usually they say caused by exhaust.	b	Uh huh,

sv	So I suspect that it's an ever growing problem.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	Well I suspect that we've probably covered everything that we need to here.	aa	Right,

fc	It was nice talking to you.	fc	and I enjoyed the conversation.

fc	Bye, bye.	fc	Bye.

qo	what's your feeling about that?	aa	I agree.

qy	where you live do you have a state income tax and a sales tax both?	ny	yes.

sd	No income tax and no sales tax.	b	Huh.

sd	and we have what we call the five B s. for our taxes. Booze, butts, cigarettes, beds, hotel room tax bellies, a meal tax and bets, gambling.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but you know, combined with the federal income tax. I think that American's generally do pay too much in taxes	b	Right.

b	Uh huh .	sd	so I get a check back

ba	Well that's nice.	sd	from taxes

sv	nice to get a refund.	aa	Yeah .

qy	Do you think that, for whatever taxes we do pay that, we are getting value for it?	nn	No.

sv	it's like one arm giving the other a transfusion.	b	Yeah.

bh	You know what I mean?	ny	Yeah.

sv	I should say one arm giving another arm a transfusion through a leaky tube because, Right because, there's an old saying in amongst taxes and politicians that there's a fly paper effect	b	Yeah.

sv	and when you send it to Washington or send it to your state capitol, a lot of it stays there and not that much comes back to you.	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	 sv	They have nice plans

sv	it's almost like they will spend as much as they're allowed to collect. You know.	b	Right.

sd	I mean you would take you total salary	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you would just pay a flat tax. No exemptions, no deductions or anything else you know, after you figure up who's in your family.	b	Right.

sv	and it would eliminate all these loop holes that the fat cats get away with.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	b	Huh.

sv	but I really think a flat tax would be a lot fairer for all Americans.	b	Right,

sd	I mean it doesn't seem right that somebody that makes twenty five or thirty thousand dollars pays four or five thousand dollars in taxes while somebody that makes two hundred and fifty thousand dollars might pay nothing in taxes.	b	Right,

sd	It doesn't seem fair to me.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	aa	I will agree to that.

qy	do you know what your state income tax rate is?	nn	no

qy^d	Twenty percent?	no	I have no idea,

sd	and she is attending college full time also	b	Uh huh.

bh	you did?	ny	Yeah,

ba	Wow.	b	Yeah .

bh	really ?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	well, the one I was just on, I don't,

b	Right.	sd	They are probably still in deliberations on it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, what I found out,

b	Right.	sd	And, he went on to tell us how they happened to catch this guy

ba	wow.	sd	So he was caught

b	Okay.	sd	county I live in the past ten years only had two capital murders.

ba	Wow.	sd	And last year there were six

 bh	Really?	ny	Yeah,

sv	well, the cases like that, they should,	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, if he's going to be drastic, somebody has to be drastic back.	b	Yeah,

bh	Really?	sd	from what I can tell. I mean, I didn't talk to the guy or anything,

ba	Wow.	sv	So, it's kind of strange that, you know,

qy^g	no remorse whatsoever,	nn	No,

sv	Well, I guess in cases like you know, where the guy would, obviously, go out and do it again I mean, you've got to do something.	b	Yeah.

ba	Wow.	sd	I was the, I think the ninety eighth person they'd interviewed.

ba	You're kidding.	sd	But, you know at the time when the guy kept saying could you ever convict someone

b	Right.	sd	But they really did.

sd	Well, I guess if the police came out and saw him fire the gun,	sd	Well, that was a subsequent case that we didn't know about. And those jurors don't know about.

bh	really?	sd	But this particular case, I mean, they had a complete confession from the guy with a lot of things that the police hadn't released

b	Okay.	sd	so no one else would have known.

b	Oh.	sd	it was really pretty interesting.

ba	Wow.	sd	Educational.

sd	I guess cases like that, I don't see why they wouldn't bring in the new evidence from the other case.	sd	Well, they can, I think in the punishment phase but not in the guilt or innocence because he hasn't been found guilty of it.

^2	Of that crime	 b	Right.

 b	okay.	b	Right,

qy	Well, they pushing the death penalty?	ny	yeah,

ba	Wow.	sd	and in Texas there is a couple of questions you have to ask, in the punishment phase.

b	Okay.	sd	So there is a lot of outs,

sv	and I'm really kind of against life in prison anyway because it costs so dog gone much.	b	Yeah .

sv	I mean, if you're going to put him in prison for life with no chance for parole,	b	Yeah,

ba	That's true.	bh	But what is it worth?

b	Uh huh.	sv	Personally I don't know which I would pick if I had a choice for myself.

sv	I mean, I don't know whether I'd stay in prison or not	b	Yeah,

ny	Yes, ma'am.	qy	And do they have the death penalty there?

sd	they've had a number of cases here.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, Jackson, I heard just the other day had their sixty first murder this year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so that's going up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I hear of one every now and then.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I visited the prison up here at Parchman	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they'll let you look down the hall.	b@	 Yeah.

sd	and I got to walk in the gas chamber	ba	Ooh.

sd	and it is kind of a weird feeling knowing you're sitting there saying, like, people have died here.	ba	That's right.

qw	How would you go about organizing a family reunion?	sd	I grew up in the deep south like south Alabama.

ba	gee.	sd	And there would be like thirty people.

ba	my.	sd	so I mean, how I would go about doing it is I would just call all my relatives.

b	Uh huh.	sd	my father has, five sisters and two brothers

aa	Yes.	sd	And I grew up in a real I think not normal setting.

bf	With all of you living so close together.	aa	Right.

sd	and we met in Florida.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so planning our family reunion was very easy , you know .	b	Yeah,

b	Okay.	h	I don't know how much I know about this subject .

h	Well, I don't know if I know anything or not,	b	Yeah.

sd	but I've got some opinions on it.	b	Okay.

sv	See those type of people that have the most opinions, ones that don't know anything .	b	Yeah .

 sv	And I think it wouldn't hurt them to step back from themselves just slightly and see things from a far more disadvantaged viewpoint.	ba	That's true.

sd	I personally know nothing about the Peace Corps though.	sd	me either.

qy	Have you ever heard about that one?	nn	No,

bh	really?	ny	Uh huh.

qy^d	And this is money that she's borrowed to form her college education?	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	But she got credits for it?	ny	Uh huh.

ba	That's very interesting.	sd	I know that also one of my cousins who, he is in like the therapy type thing

b	Huh.	sv	I think that's a good way you know, maybe get people to come back to these small towns to work by helping people that normally might not be able to go to college and get the type of degree they want.

sv	And it's beneficial to the small towns too because, they really have a disadvantage that we wouldn't understand because we're in the Metroplex.	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, if we had some really major health problem that required a specialist, we could find one it wouldn't be convenient,	b	Yeah.

sd	but we could find one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We wouldn't have to drive and spend the night someplace or something like that.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	The Peace Corps itself is really dying out, isn't it?	sd	I really don't know that much about it,

 sd	It's still in existence.	b	Yeah.

na	I want to believe they go into other countries and teach them how to do things like farm, dig their own wells, set up, their schools.	b	Uh huh.

ny	Yes.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's not a program to teach them to use the American money, it's a program to teach them to be more self reliant.	b	Right.

sd	that was his big deal.	sv	But it definitely would give a lot of the kids now that have everything given to them that they want to see what it's like if you don't have all the money and can't have what you want when you want it.

sd	but actually they're pretty good, along those lines as compared to what I have seen from other people's children and grandchildren, mine aren't really that bad,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but at the same time I think it would do them a world of good.	b	Yeah.

aa	No.	sd	I don't know that that would work if, somebody's, didn't really want to be there and didn't have,

sv	They could buy their way out.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and it doesn't do any good.	b	Yeah.

sd	I, don't know that, if you step back from the current issue and look at it more intellectually, there are forever over, as long as we know there are races of people that are dropping out.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, we're losing certain, races of people.	b	Uh huh.

sv	There are people now that are obsolete point and fact just like endangered species of animals, so there are quote tribes of people, that are endangered or obsolete.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they're being winnowed because where they are they're not adapted to their environment essentially.	b	Right,

sd	and one of the quick examples is the Aborigines.	b	Yeah,

sd	and their belief system and all their structured of theirs, all the structures of their society are gone, essentially.	b	Yeah.

sv	and that's sad.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I don't think you could have done it fifty or a hundred years ago either.	b	Yeah.

sv	So, I'm wondering if the Peace Corps is, really an effective tool.	sd	Down here with the Peace Corps we're talking about all these people that aren't even in our own country when there's enough people here that I think probably need help and, could be helped.

sv	there's plenty.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think we ought to worry about our own species.	sv	And maybe rather than just, require somebody to join like the Peace Corps for a year maybe like, during college, you know, maybe have some kind of course where they'd be required to do some kind of community service type work, and help people in that area or people in the United States.

sd	but I wonder if there aren't some sociology courses.	sv	There probably are, you know,

sv	That's the last thing you want, to do.	b	Yeah .

ad	Now come on, let's be realistic,	b	Yeah.

sv	that's just not realistic.	^2	Or, you know, to find a job where they can learn how to support themselves,

aa	Right.	sv	I mean, I guess we're getting kind of off the subject, , here,

sv	I think, that's more realistic than making them go in the Peace Corps.	b	Yeah,

sv	and again I don't think the Peace Corps is as successful now simply because It doesn't fit the circumstance anymore.	b	Yeah.

qy	You're in, what Flower Mound?	na	Flower Mound,

sd	and the other is the Oklahoma Sooners.	b	okay.

sd	being a native Okie, I like to keep up with what the homeboys are doing.	b	I see,

nn	No.	qy^d	Every year.

sd	I got out and got my bachelor's degree in seventy three and, never went to a game there and have never gone to a game since.	ba	How about that.

 sd	growing up in Oklahoma, there it was always the home team, kind of like Dallas is around here.	b	Yeah,

sd	And there's always been an interest there.	sv	Well, it's kind of same for me,

b	Yeah.	sd	And they were like thirty miles right up the river

sd	and I was rooting for the Cowboys.	b	Yeah.

sd	I look for it to be a pretty good year.	sd	Boy they sure did have a big turn around from a couple of years ago.

sd	At least we hope it will.	b	Yeah,

sd	but they have always been a really strong team.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Once the pressure gets turned on they seem to loose it.	b	I guess, yeah.

sd	See that's the typical trait of the Dallas Cowboys. And the Oklahoma Sooners.	b	Yeah.

 sd	It's funny, over the years.	sd	I guess since Staubach left, they haven't been able to, keep it going.

sd	I don't know why it's so hard to find, a good quarterback these days.	sd	Well, that says a lot for his ability, though I think. For Staubach's, I mean.

sd	But, the guy winds up getting hurt every other game.	b	Yeah,

sd	when the pressure is really on when it's down to the last few minutes of the game for the season is when the guys seem to really do their best.	b	Uh huh.

sd	if they figure they have got it won or if there's no real hurry because the first three quarters or, if something happens that that adrenalin starts flowing. They say, hey, we got to do something now. And then start playing the game the way the game should be played toward the last few minutes.	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess we're always looking for a good year.	bf	So, obviously though, do you think they're going to do anything in the playoffs to make it to the Super Bowl this year

sd	They'll probably get everybody's hopes up and blow it toward the end.	qw	So who's going to beat them?

h	I'm not real sure.	sd	Boy, they'd some big changes, speaking of them.

sd	and all you can do is get out of the way because here they come.	b	Yeah.

ba	Well, that's true.	sd	Those guys are tough.

sd	and they are going to come right through you if you don't do something.	b	Yeah.

aa	yeah.	sd	I mean, I wasn't pulling for either team.

sd	and for a long time I was pulling for Denver.	b	Uh huh.

sd	sometimes it's too good because he throws too hard.	qy^d	L A you mean?

bh	yeah?	ny	Yeah

qy	Has it been, snowing up there?	^h	boy I was just up there,

 ba	Wow.	sd	And it snowed all day.

sv	Well, that will make the skiers happy.	aa	yeah,

fc	Well, good to talk to you.	fc	Yeah,

fc	You guys have a good time, keep those printers coming.	fc	Hey,

 fc	bye.	fc^m	Bye.

^q	what what do you like to do for yourself in car automobile repairs?	b	Uh huh.

b	Okay.	sd	I do the easy stuff now.

qrr	or are you so busy you don't have time to do it?	sd	Well, that's part of it

sd	Well being a female and being alone, I don't do anything but put gasoline, in my car, and let someone else check the oil even.	b	Uh huh.

qy	But, have you had any major repairs recently?	ng	Well, on this car I've got now, no,

b	Oh.	sd	But fortunately that was covered under the warranty.

sd	and I'll declare, that's an expensive.	aa	yeah.

 sd	Maybe I should have just traded the car in.	b	Yeah,

sd	well, I have a very comfortable car and I have a health problem that I need a large comfortable car.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I'm sure that any of them would have or charged me almost the same amount.	b	Yeah.

sd	it hurts, it hurts real bad.	qy	Did you take it to a dealership?

sd^e	I took it to an independent out in Garland.	b	Uh huh.

sd	these people were recommended by a neighbor	b	Uh huh.

 sd	I am not a native of Dallas.	b	I see.

sd	So that means I have to depend on trustworthy friends	b	Right.

sd	and I pray that I get my thirteen hundred dollars out of it.	ba	gosh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's going to run for a while yet.

qw	What work are you in?	sd	I work for T I.

b	Oh.	sd	I work in the networking area.

b^r	okay.	qy	Do you work for T I?

nn	No.	b^m	No,

sd^e	I have just retired from, the Southwest Medical Center.	b	Oh.

sd	but they're all too busy.	b	Yeah.

sd	and that's find someone and pay them to do it.	b	Yeah,

sv	but I don't much think so .	b	Yeah.

ad	so let's make it a good one.	aa	Yeah,

b	Okay.	fc	All right, well, I enjoyed the conversation.

fc	Thank you.	fc	All right, thank you.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qy	or are you familiar with any of that?	sd	Well, I know that we have some relatives that live around, like the area in there,

b	Huh uh.	sd	I know they're doing some curbside recycling as a kind of a test there.

sd	And, you know, we separate everything out, and then have to haul it up to a Metco , you know, which is a real pain.	b	Huh uh.

sd	So if they would come up, curbside recycling,	^2	they'll help you, recycle, because there is some bins, like behind Wal Mart, that take some things.

qy	Well, now have they moved them behind Wal Mart?	ny	Yeah.

ba	God.	sd	Because I finally asked because, you know, we had all of those milk cartons

sd	Because to take it to a Metco , you have to take it when they're open, you know, which is always a real pain.	b	Huh uh.

sd	And we're going, no, there goes our recycling place.	b	Yeah.

sd	I couldn't even think of what you call them.	b	Yeah.

sd	Plastic milk cartons, newspapers and cans, and glass, I guess, is really the four things that we do.	qy^d	Like aluminum cans?

ny^r	Yeah.	sd	That's about what we do too.

qy	Is there any place else that really takes anything other than that, that you know of?	na	Well, I guess, down kind of in North Dallas, there is a place that will take almost anything.

b	really.	sd	we just don't have the room to store all that much, you know,

ba	I know.	sd	I don't want to be running down there every week, or whatever.

sd	but you kind of get, I guess, into a little routine, you know, where it is automatic, now, to throw, different things in different places,	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, we just kind of dump things in each one, if, you know, if we get them,	b	Yeah.

sd	If you get four milk cartons and that fills up trash bag, you know pretty easily,	sd	I guess we kind of started recycling after I moved here about a year and a half ago.

bh	really.	sd	We were using baby food

b	Yeah.	sd	Some of our neighbors were doing it

ba	that will be good.	sd	so, you know, if I'm not going to get the money for aluminum, I would just assume give it to the city of Flower Mound. to do something with, you know.

^2	Let somebody get something out of it.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah .	b	Yeah .

qy	you know, do you work for T I?	nn	No,

sd	And they had talked about having a thing like, one Saturday a month, you could come and drop your aluminum cans off from home, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	Sounds like you have a little one just like I do .	sd	She'll be two in July.

sd	Mine was two in December .	b	Oh.

fc	Well, it was good to talk to you.	fc	Well, it was nice to talk to you.

qy^d	Curbside pick up?	ny	Yeah.

fc	Talk to you later.	fc	Okay.

qy	do you have either one?	ng	Well, I don't do anything with the lawn really,

bh	really?	sd	we have enough property that we can have a little bit of a garden

sd	I had rather be outside than inside any day.	sd	So would I .

qy	Do you work during the week, outside the home?	ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I manage to fit in my gardening chores afterward,

b	Yes.	sd	and I can still do some sorts of things

sv	Or you sneak out in the morning after daylight savings time starts and with your cup of coffee and see if it has grown overnight.	aa	absolutely .

sd	in fact, I was prevented no, about thirty years ago with a life membership, from the Richmond, Virginia counsel of garden clubs.	ba	Wow.

sd	but I still have,	ba	that's wonderful.

sd	well, it's always something that seems so odd to me	sv	and you really feel you can accomplish something

sv	it has really nothing to do with, actual gardening or flower arranging or anything like that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was just that I happened to organize this group, that was about seventy people.	b	Right.

b	yeah,	b	Yeah.

sv	those numbers were great	b	Yeah,

b	Yes.	sd	but I know people who do it and enjoy it very much.

sd	Just moved to North Carolina,	b	Oh.

sd	in Oklahoma, it's the men's garden clubs that I would have wanted to join.	ba	My word.

sd	And you would have because they do all kinds of, gardening and not just flowers like women do.	ba	For heaven's sake.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	Well, there aren't men's gardening clubs in this area that I know of,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, flowers are primarily the emphasis, whereas I enjoy vegetable gardening almost more, I do flowers sort of look pretty

sd	I think so too.	sd	but I really like to do the vegetables.

sd	and I have spent the last ten years being a florist.	br	Being what?

sd	Being a florist.	ba	my.

sd	it was exhilarating, for many years.	b	Yes.

sd	many of those tanned until the last couple when, we had such an economic slowdown.	ba	terrible

ad	well, tell me what's in your garden this year, since I don't have one.	aa	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	 +	and then I have a shady area that I need to, be concerned about not getting something that has to have sun,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I like the vinca which is something I hadn't,

qy	Do you have trouble with red spider on marigolds?	nn	No.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	but in the vegetable garden we grow, usually, what

sd	so is my favorite.	sd	Well, you know why, because I grew up in North Carolina,

b	Okay.	sd	and that was my mother's, favorite bean

b	Yeah.	sd	but that's the kind that produces the best.

sd	well, I think it has the best flavor.	sd	and they're wonderful,

sd	well, I like them in between.	sd	and they're good both ways.

sd	I like them in between.	b	Yeah,

sd	The flavor is better I think in between.	b	yeah,

b	yeah.	b	yeah.

sd	My mother,	sd	Well, my mother doesn't think they have any flavor the way I cook them .

sd	But I think, that's like another vegetable.	ba	of course.

sd	I love them that way just the thrill of,	aa	Yeah,

sd	In fact, my mother, who is eighty six years old, canned over a hundred quarts of half runners last year.	ba	my gosh.

b^r	yes.	sd	But she doesn't have that big a garden,

 b	yes.	 sd	And I have four children, you know,

qy	And she tends to it herself?	ny	yes,

ba	isn't that wonderful.	aa	it is,

b	Yeah.	sd	We also grow, yellow and green squash, much to my children's chagrin,

 b	Right.	 sd	and, we grow a lot of tomatoes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	there's just no replacement for fresh grown tomatoes.

aa	No.	sd	So, we enjoy that,

ba	Wonderful.	sd	I'm going to do it again.

sv	Bet you showed them.	ba	That's right.

b	Oh.	sd	And I have been very, happy about the new way of controlling the, worm that gets in broccoli, by using the Bacillus Thuringiansis which is the, little,

ny	No.	sd	But you know, it's a problem that's moving south from the New England area.

b	Yes.	sd	And they devastate the trees

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, that's the same technique that is, you know, for any of the other, little varmints that get in vegetables

sd	I'm enjoying hearing you so much .	sd	Well, it's nice hearing you talk

sd^e	October.	sv	so, well, that's not very long.

sd^e	recently seven months	b	Yes.

sd	I love it.	ba	that's great,

sd	you know, rains a little too often.	sd	Well, I hope you have an opportunity to garden again.

sd	I have a little spinach .	ba	well, good .

 fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qo	So, what do you think about it?	sd	Well, I guess I'm more concerned about public safety than I am about the concern for the private, the idea of, preserving privacy for, the individual,

b	Right.	sd	because I can't really see why anyone, who has nothing to hide would object.

sd	Well, there is always the possibility, even remote as it is, of mistaken, of,	ba	of course, that is certainly true,

b	Yeah.	b	yeah.

sd	I'm a, I mean, I'm, I'm very much for drug testing,	b	Uh huh.

cc	I mean, I'm going to take the negative side just for a second, just to do it.	b	Sure.

sd	see, I have to take, medication for, for kidney transplant.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I'm going to be taking that the rest of my life.	b	Sure.

sd	I don't know how that's going to affect,	qy^d	If you had to have a drug test?

b	Right.	b	Yeah.

sd	I work for Texas Instruments	b	Uh huh,

sd	and they send me and have me, you know, go through this, thing, you know,	^2	Checked out or whatever.

b	yeah.	sd	But it seems to me that there are ways to accommodate that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I would think that some guidelines could be set up to avoid that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Because, there must be people like you, or in other circumstances, that could come up with, false positives for certain kind of drugs.

b	yeah.	sv	But, in many cases whether or not an individual has a problem with drugs, it's not even going to effect anybody but you know, himself and his own family, perhaps, depending on the kind of drug he might be on.

b	Right.	sv	But, and eventually that's going to show up anyway in the way he works, and so on.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But there's so many things that it would make a difference.

sd	and this is why.	b	Yeah.

sd	but you know, we are in a war against, drugs.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean it's horrible.	b	Sure.

sv	I mean, you don't know whether the person sitting next to you anywhere is on drugs or not,	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I think, personally, the drastic step has to be that you can't work if you continue taking drugs.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, make it so, Well, make it, ma , not necessarily difficult,	^2	Make it difficult enough.

sv	but make it so that it's not glamorous.	b	Yeah,

sv	or at least it seems that way.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	sv	The people who, have serious problems, I mean,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's the son and so on,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Most of these are young people.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and he may never really be a productive member of society.

b	Huh.	sv	I mean, you know, he's so messed up.

b	Right.	sd	And, this was a nice, sweet, young man who, teenager, you know,

b	Right.	sd	And, you know, I don't know that his problem would ever have been detected by drug testing.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's horrible.

qw^t	What limits ought to be put on it, do you think?	sv	Well, the limits, would, I think, have to do with what I'd alluded to before, that, that one positive on a drug test, would not constitute, dismissal or grounds for whatever the company or agency might, have set up for those who genuinely have a problem.

b	Uh huh.	sv	In other words, there needs to be, more than,

^2	Treatment before for dismissal type thing.	 %	Pard ,

b	Yeah.	sv	there needs to be more than one test,

b	Uh huh.	sv	There are lots of things that are involved there, such as, perhaps, insurance you know, denial of insurance for someone,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and undoubtedly there are people who would be victimized by this, that, you know,

b	Right.	sv	because it makes a bigger problem.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I'm not sure, though, when we talk about what rules, if any, that we should say, well, certain segments should not have to be tested.

sd	Personally, I think that's what I was about to say is that everyone needs to be tested.	b	And, yeah.

^2	That it could happen.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	would be some measure of protection.

b	Right.	b	Really.

sv	but the reward ultimately comes down to what you want.	b	Yeah.

aa	So I've got to agree with that.	ba	That's very true.

sv	I think we did pretty good.	b	Yeah.

b	All right.	fc	It was nice talking to you.

fc^m	it was nice talking to you, too.	fc	Okay,

sv	since there's so many issues, this one person can believe a lot of different ways on, all of them	b	Right,

sv	so, it would be really difficult to have that one perfect person that believed exactly what you believed.	ba	That's true,

b	Yeah.	sv	and if they're Republican they vote Republican every year, you know,

b	yeah,	b	Yeah.

ba	that's good.	sd	back when Anderson was running, I was hoping that things would change and he'd actually get elected and party politics would start going down the tubes,

sv	it would be the other way that the Republicans were real liberal minded as far as like, moral standings and those kinds of things.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh .	qy^g	they each think that, if more people vote, they'll get more votes,

ny	Yeah .	sd	I'm always amazed that each candidate thinks it's going to be the people that come out that will vote for him, you know.

sv	I think in, the Texas governor elections, I think more people turned out to vote against somebody than for somebody, this time.	b	Yeah,

bh	really?	sd	and when things start,

b	Right.	sd	and, still on the other hand we're also,

sd	that's true that the different places in America that, you know, different issues would be a lot more important than say in another place.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh .	sv	and, it doesn't matter who they put in office, they're going to fall subject to, the pressure that the lobbyists can put,

sv	and then once they do get elected, they don't have the power or the authority or the willingness to do those things that they promised, you know, beforehand.	b	Right.

sv	with the economy going the way it is and everything, that was nearly ridiculous thing to, even try to do.	b	Yeah .

^2	after the war.	b	Uh huh.

b	yeah.	sv(^q)	They'll just say, well, you know, the Republicans have this election

b	Yeah.	sd	hope some of the local,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I know, my grandmother hasn't voted in years.

qy	Do you hear the dogs in the background here?	nn	No,

sd	and they went off.	bh	yeah?

sv	and, that was sort of interesting.	b	Yeah .

qw	What part of the country are you from?	sd	Washington, D C,

bh	Are you really?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	this is Dallas where I'm at.	b	okay.

sd	The outskirts of Dallas.	sd^t	Well, I figured with Texas Instruments they'd probably have a few, Texans on the line now and then.

qy	do you work for T I in any way?	nn	No,

qw	how did they get you?	sd	, they went through engineering companies,

b	Oh.	sd	and, we're communications.

sd	and I thought, wow, that might be interesting.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd^t	They called me at, ten o'clock one night,

b	Yeah.	sd^t	I guess they were doing Eastern Standard Time.

sd^t	Central Standard Time is what they're doing it by.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	so maybe I'll figure it out.	b	Uh huh.

sv^t	and, that was an interesting topic.	b	Okay.

sd	I'm Kyle Hunt, too, if you ever come to Dallas area.	b	Oh.

sd	We live right by the airport.	b	Yeah,

b	okay.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	fc	All right, I'll talk to you later .

fc	Okay.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	and, the family car is a Dodge Caravan. because we have three kids and they're under thirteen	bk	okay.

sd	I have one of those, pickups with the, seat with a seat in the back.	^2	Cab.

sd	When they get to be teenagers with long legs, it may not work.	b	Yeah .

sd	and, and since I do a lot of projects, I throw things in the back	ba	There you go.

sd	and I kind of like having a pickup truck.	b	Yeah,

sd	Actually, I think of it , as a car that'll last .	b	Right,

sd	So, I'm pretty happy.	b	Yeah,

sd	so I wouldn't hesitate to get another used truck.	sv	You're just like me.

sd	I'll let somebody else, have the showroom shine	aa	No.

sd	and I'll pay for the rest of it.	sv	Let somebody else break it in,

sd	I'm not sure.	b	Yeah.

sd	but, I guess, we had a small Toyota wagon	b	Right.

 sd	and we were real happy with that because, my second requirement after price is, low maintenance.	b	Right.

sd	We didn't do much to it at all.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it pretty much does everything I need it to.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it's real reliable,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then, of course, two weeks ago, it decided,

ba	Uh oh.	sd	Didn't do any damage to it.

qw	at how at how many miles?	sd	ninety seven thousand.

b	Huh.	sd	So it's not real early .

qy^d	You didn't overheat it?	nn	No.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Went out and looked.

b	Huh.	sd	And that was it

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean that's sort of my, hobby though more than a vehicle.

sd	I don't think it's much of a sport for him. I guess,	ba	I know

b	yeah.	b	Yeah.

aa	No .	sd	And I go out twice a week on the bike, so. At least. Just for the enjoyment.

 b	Yeah .	b	But, yeah,

b	Right.	sv	I'm sure that that's very,

sd	If I only had some place that I could store the, camper top, I would have it off most of the time.	 b	Right.

sd	I really leave it on there just just to have it out of the way because you put it on the ground it gets dirty.	^2	To have it out of the way.

sv	trucks are built, I mean,	sv	I think they last a lot longer than anything else.

sv	They're the only things Americans still know how to build	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think the Fords tend to last a little longer. At least until recently .

sd	so, mine's a Ford .	sd	A friend of mine just , bought like a year ago. it's a really nice truck.

b	yes.	sv	it's beautiful.

b	Yeah.	sv	that thing will last forever I mean ,

sv	that's a serious truck.	b	yeah,

sd	I know a contractor who just got one of those.	b	Uh huh.

qo	So. How's your products been?	sd	I really haven't had, too many problems.

qy	Have you had any lately go out?	ny	Yeah,

ba	wow.	b	Yeah,

qy	even, all the warranties were out?	ny	Yeah,

ba	You're kidding.	nn	No.

sd	so we had to buy all those, too.	ad	watch out.

sd	I buy a lot of wood working equipment through the mail	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, that's about the only thing I've had gone wrong.	sd	I usually have pretty good luck with appliances,

ba	That's incredible.	sd	and the, microwave had to have, some kind of something I can't even pronounce,

qy^d	And they all went out at the same time?	na	within two days of each other.

ba	Wow.	sd	it wasn't a good week.

sd	it's frustrating.	sd	But I didn't have to worry about all that, because they weren't under warranty.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the only other things that I've ever had trouble with,

qy^d	they go out a lot?	ny	Yeah,

sd	and make, automotive air bags, the safety air bags.	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	ba	That's interesting.

sd	and so our testing is pretty thorough,	qy	do you test each individual one

sd	I think they test four or five a day, actually exploding the air bags	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we do electrical tests on them during the process,	sd	Well, that's something I've never had to use,

b	Yeah.	sd	But I think it's a great idea.

sd	it's incredible how much testing they have to do.	sv	I'm sure they want to be thorough before they.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm not a real big seat belt,

sd^t	so we're going to talk about, what kind of clothes we wear while we work.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you work for T I?	nn	No,

sd	I stay home also.	qy	Do you have children?

sd^e	I have two, a seven year old and three and a half year old.	ba	that's good.

qo	How about you?	sd	I have four girls

b	Oh.	sd	they're nine and five and three and a newborn.

ba	my, you are busy	aa	Yes,

sd	so, all girls around here .	qy^g	Girls are nice, aren't they?

sv^e	really sweet.	sd	Anyway, as far as clothing goes, my wardrobe changes all the time, depending on my size .

aa	That's how I am too.	sd	We go from regular kind of spring clothes regular kind of fall clothes pregnant clothes, clothes that are in between where you're not down to regular size yet or you're on your way up from regular size

ba	that's funny.	sd	and they're all in boxes or bags,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't, get a whole lot new right now,

sd	and when it's cold, I'm wearing sweat pants, and most of, unless I'm going to something special that my daughter's doing, or something like that,	b	Yeah.

sd	and now nothing seems to be comfortable because I bulge in all the wrong places,	sv	and it's frustrating,

b	Yeah.	sv	it works best if they have pleats in the front

aa	yeah.	sd	my waist is kind of small compared to the hips,

sd	I know what you mean.	sd	when I was pregnant through the summer this time I wore dresses all the time because it was so much cooler and so much more comfortable not to have something binding on your waist

sd	and I remember, I wore sundresses and, you know, just those real cool dresses almost the entire time .	b	Yeah,

sd	And I had one that was born in December,	b	Uh huh.

sd	course I'm always hot when I'm pregnant, too,	b	Yeah,

sd	but I really have been spoiled by sweat pants and these new, units outfits, you know, that are just knit,	sd	I haven't tried those,

sd	they are so comfortable.	b	Huh.

sd	it's just, you know, a light weight kind of like a sweat suit but made out of that real light polyester stuff,	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's just great because you know, you can decorate them up, or dress them up, if you want,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I've enjoyed wearing those	b	Uh huh.

sd	if we had professional jobs where we go into an office and have to wear a jacket or something that would make a big difference.	b	Yeah.

sd	I worked part time when my oldest was a baby	b	Uh huh.

sd	and and it was a little bit hard to, wind down,	t3	I'm watching, Janice,

sd	and I would be burning up, like in the summer time	b	Oh.

sd	by the time I got home I was like, I've got to get out of these clothes .	sd	I remember that from when I was,

aa	Right.	sv	you've got to have something to add to it or something

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know if you can,

sd	and then when you drive home, like especially if you're in a lot of traffic which you are in Dallas,	sv	You burn up,

b	uh huh	b	Yeah.

sd	because I always hated to run my air conditioner just sitting still all the time	b	Yeah.

sd	I was afraid I'd make the car overheat.	aa	It's hard on the car.

sd	it was still a hundred degrees	b	Oh.

sd	and I had a friend who used to take shorts to work,	b	Yeah.

sd	and after work she'd go in the bathroom and change her clothes	ba	that's funny,

sd(^q)	and I thought, that's probably a good idea because you really	b	Yeah

sv	because you can ruin your good clothes getting so hot in them especially if it's something that has to be dry cleaned, which I don't have any of.	aa	That's true,

sd	even when I go to church I have to have something I can just throw in the washer when I'm through.	aa	That's right,

aa	I know it.	sd	I've always been a creature of comfort, too

aa	Me, too.	sv	if it's not comfortable, forget it.

sd	that's how I am, too,	sv	Wool was never comfortable to me.

 qw	How do you keep up with current events?	sd	well actually, usually, in the mornings I am getting ready to either go to work,

qw	what what channel do you watch or what station?	sd	N B C.

sd	so I really don't have much time to like read the newspapers and stuff	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I get a lot of stuff through the grapevine which really isn't too great sometimes .	b	Yeah.

sd	The stations I listen to are just mainly music.	b	Yeah,

qy	I mean sometimes do you think it gets pretty commercialized	no	Well, what I really don't like about T V, especially local news as compared to like national news is just, it seems like everything is very spoon feed

sd	they mainly go with like popular topics just not like basic news.	b	Uh huh.

 b	Yeah.	 sd	it's something wrong.

sv	looks like they're going more for ratings than for you know actual news.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think, you know probably the best source of just plain journalism would be newspapers	b	Uh huh.

sd	I am from a small town too here in Texas that like local news is really who grew the biggest tomato	b	Uh huh.

sd	or who killed who.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the story was,	qy	Was that like he started shooting people in this cafeteria or something?

sd	And the news covered it right, you know, hours after it happened	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they were taping people who were crying who had everything	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then like three days later this, local news station was using as as their promo to promote themselves.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I just thought that's kind of cold,	b	yeah,

sd	they were showing like these dead people	 b	Uh huh .

sd	and they were showing people crying	b	Uh huh .

sv	I mean just taking advantage of you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, somewhere it's lost a lot of the quality that they use to have like in Walter Cronkite that if you know	 b	Yeah .

sv	and everything.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know even the national news I just find it to be you know very watered down,

qo	What did you think of the coverage of the war?	sd	I found it very one sided.

bh	Did you?	sv	you know, it just seemed to lack any sort of debate.

b	Yeah.	h	you know, not saying that we actually should have been there or shouldn't have been there,

sv	and it never really showed what actually the damage that really happened that's	b	Uh huh.

sv	a lot of times like the news coverage showed all you know, the guys who didn't get hurt coming home and all the big parties	b	Uh huh.

qh	if they were going to show that why didn't they show the guys who you know got really hurt and everything.	b	Uh huh.

ad	Go ahead.	aa	Okay,

sv	but I think just the instability of the country right now is, sort of scary.	sv	Well, that's what makes it a powder keg.

b	Uh huh.	sd	naturally we were at the time,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I went to Lebanon in eighty three, before the marines ever got there, with the U N Peace Keeping Force. with the training I received prior to going there, with captured weapons we kept running up against.

b	uh huh.	sd	In Granada, in October, twenty fifth, eighty three, we invaded the place.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Their military is different from ours, to where there are extremist generals that actually control tens and thousands of troops.

sv	I guess that's what concerns me the most. Is they're so unstable that somebody like that could make, decisions that would jeopardize a lot of people.	sd	Well, it's interesting watching the different Soviet states, Albania, Lithuania, doing their little revolts down there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Each one of those sectors has got a Soviet general over the troops that are there.

sv	it looks like it's come close to that as it is.	sv	Actually, they're showing remarkable restraint.

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Okay,

ny	Yeah.	sd	You put five Soviet hyundee helicopters in the air, they can level the entire area

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	I take it you haven't spent any time in the military?

sd^e	I haven't.	sd	As a civilian that's never been attached to any form of the military,

b	Uh huh.	qy	But, during that same time frame, didn't you get some feeling, that, I mean, they're getting all these weapons and stuff?

qy	You mean in the most recent conflict?	sd	In any of them since eighty one.

sv	It's bad enough that the Soviets do it.	sv	It all boils down to, whether it's our side, their side,

b	Uh huh.	sd	The deal the Iraqi's have with the Russians was for oil.

sv	It's scary to know that they're supplying that many people with weapons. Especially when it's to the south of us.	sd	the ones to the south are more regional conflict.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Inflation is out of this world

sv	I think Gorbachev has about had his day.	sv	Unfortunately, Yeltsin's got too many connections with the old guard.

 b	Yeah.	 sv	Gorbachev has made his attempt

b	Uh huh.	sv	Yeltsin's in tight with the old guard.

sd	I sure wouldn't turn my back on them.	 %	You mean,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It may be a much reduced force than what we used to have over there.

co	let me try it again because usually ,	qy^t	Do you usually get a message?

ny	Yeah.	co^t	Hang on let me check on it .

sv^t	Well, I think we're on, maybe.	b	Okay.

sd^t	I guess we'll find out .	b	Yeah.

qy	So, in Maryland are you a Skins fan?	ng	well, not really from, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	and besides I like the city.

bf	So, you were out there in San Francisco?	ny	yeah.

bh	yeah?	b	Yeah.

sd	it's, other than the big catch, with the Forty niners and the Cowboys back a few year ago I like San Francisco.	b	okay.

sd	I never really was a Cowboys fan until I moved down to Texas.	qy	is that where you are now?

ny	Yeah.	bk	okay.

qy^d	and, I guess when you're down here in Dallas you finally get indoctrinated into the Cowboys because, you know this is a big football territory down here.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, unfortunately, of course, the Cowboys have been doing so bad in the past few years.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, it's not like it used to be.	b	Yeah.

sd	But I think, actually, in trying to follow, you know the Cowboys over the years I think, they used to have a philosophy for, well I don't know, probably the last twenty five years except for about the last about five or six years they always went out and tried to draft the best, athletes. And didn't really put them draft for any particular spot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But they would go out and try to go for, the best people and then mold them into different areas or find their natural niche.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and this is when Schramm was still there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and when they drafted somebody and he didn't workout at that spot it really wasn't a good enough athlete to move to any place else.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think the decline of the Cowboys as a powerhouse really kind of started with, not drafting the best athletes.	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	sd	my, my, my main sport is baseball

b	Yeah.	qy^g	Cowboys are going to have a problem aren't they?

sd	they still have some, some draft picks, that they got,	qy^g	They don't, have anything high do they?

sd	I think it was, Minnesota's ,	ba	that's right,

b	Yeah.	sd	What was I thinking.

aa	yeah .	b	Yeah,

sd	I've got a friend that, lives right next to the Cowboys' training camp.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're all thinking that, man, they, they really got something going this year,	b	Uh huh.

sv	{D You, know, } I guess it's the same way with baseball or anybody, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	Spring training until you actually start going out and getting out against the competition everything probably looks pretty good.	b	yeah.

b	really.	sv	this is the way it is.

sd^e	they did. As a matter of fact,	qy^g	Because they only won one game the year before, right?

ny	Yeah.	bk	Okay.

qy^d	Well, you don't like the Skins?	nn	no.

bk	okay.	sv	they, they got a big thing because of you know, the, the expansion going on in baseball.

ba	Jeez.	sv	But, of course, you know, the, the one, the griping is that you know, if, if Washington doesn't get a baseball team then Baltimore shouldn't get a football team. Which is probably true,

sd	of course, then you're not that far from Philadelphia.	b	Yeah,

sd	it was Buddy Ryan, the one that I can't, stand too much.	sd	well, considering how well he gets along with, Jimmy Johnson that doesn't surprise me.

b	really.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was the same year that Buddy Ryan got fired.

qy^d	actually, you said you lived near, Baltimore?	ny	Yeah.

sd	and, actually I used to drive a lot between Baltimore and Washington	ar	No.

nn	no.	sd@	it's just west of Baltimore, off Route Seventy. Yeah,

b	okay.	sd	but basical , well, Route Seventy and Route Forty.

sd	I used to go out of B W I a lot.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	yeah?	b	Yeah.

qy	Is it the, the Wharf or the, Inner Harbor.	na	The Inner Harbor.

b	Yeah.	sd	there's a big long railroad shed

b	Great.	sd	but, you know, they're building the baseball stadium

aa	 Yeah.	sd	So it's, real easy access from south of Baltimore like the airport or more importantly for the Orioles from Washington D C.

sd	the Colts you know, still to me are the Baltimore Colts.	b	Uh huh.

qy	You know?	ny	Yeah.

b	okay.	sd	And, I was not real happy when they, left to go there of all places .

qy^d	Delaware?	ny	Yeah.

sd	there's not a whole lot in Delaware.	b	Yeah,

qy^d@	I take it you're an east coast type guy?	na	kind of all over the place but, eas , east coast lately,

o	Okay.	qy	Well, have you ever, had a family reunion?

ny	Yes,	bk	Oh.

sd	Some of the older people organized it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it was like, when our ancestors first came over.	b	Oh.

sd	And, then what they did was they asked every family to write something about their family. like, how many kids you had, and who you had married,	b	Huh.

sd	and it showed well, who my husband's parents were, you know. And, who he married and then how many children we had and then like his brothers and sisters	b	Uh huh .

sd	and it went through the whole family and stuff.	ba	that's so neat.

sd	And, it was so good.	ba	great .

sd	you know, plus it's got a lot more people interested in it because, you got to participate sort of.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	and then you could get it at the reunion.

sd	And, everybody got a book, that came to the reunion.	ba	nice.

sd	And, it told like, you know, where the first Connally's came over,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it just kept coming on up through the generations.	ba	Wow.

sd	So, that was really neat.	ba	That is neat.

na	Well, he does .	bh	he does?

sd	But, he has enough relatives to make up for me not having any .	sd	That's kind of how my husband and I are.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's it.

 sd	because a lot of them lived in like a group, you know, down one highway.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they all lived down there by it.	ba	how nice.

sd	and this is where my aunt lives and my uncle,	ba	my gosh.

sd	Nobody has this many relatives, you know .	b	Yeah.

sd	but, they really were all there.	ba	How funny.

sd	And, another thing that's really good about, family reunions, is having everybody just cook whatever is their specialty, and bring it. because nobody it seemed liked the same thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then you got to taste a lot of new dishes and stuff too, and get a lot of good recipes.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	Where if you said a certain thing and say, okay, we're all going to have fried fish, or, we're all going, to have fried chicken.	b	Yeah.

 sd	Everybody might not like that.	^2	Not be able to do it.

ny	Yeah,	b	They did.

sd	they came from all over.	qy	Did you put them up in other peoples houses

sd	they just stayed with different ones of them.	b^m	They did.

 sd	and then, they had it.	b	Uh huh .

sd	It had gotten so big that they had it at the church.	 bh	really?

sd	you know, and then they had, then they ate out on the ground.	ba	How nice.

ny	Uh huh.	qy	Did they just have like over a weekend?

ny	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

b^m	Uh huh.	sd	Well, I'm real curious because my family,

qy	But, you know what you can do?	qw	Huh?

qy^d	A lot of these lakes and things, if you could find a centrally located, like, say about the same distance for all of you all to come?	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it, you know, like on a lake,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, you know,	b	Uh huh.

 +	it's got little rooms that separate off of it and stuff,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, it's not very expensive that way.	 %	so,

sd	It's like a, they have like a, a convention type thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, then it has little rooms off of it where,	ba	Oh!

 sd	But, then it has like a kitchenette and things like that	sd	See, that would be great because then you could spend so much more time together, than if you all were in your own hotels or something.

b	Right.	sd	And then, every time you wanted to go eat with somebody, you'd probably have to go to out, eat or something.

b	Yeah.	ba	That sounds like fun.

sd	what you can do is, you can write different places, the Chamber of Commerce, tell them what you're interested in.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Ask them what they have, you know, at area lakes and all.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	because now every time we plan anything, just about, we write to the Chamber of Commerce of where we're going because, you can find out so much easier, that way, than try to locate it, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	calling different places can really run you up a bill.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, you can't get it exact, you know, usually,	b	yeah.

sd	And that is not bad at all.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, lot of times they'll have like, little cabins,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and three or four or five families can stay in those cabins because they have, you know, just the single bunk beds and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that doesn't cost you as much.	ba	That would be great.

sd	But, you know, that's the best way I found, something where you go and,	b	Yeah.

sd	but it wasn't any of my immediate family anyway. Because I didn't have any of them left.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, , they had, thing where everybody could come and meet and go out to eat.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	But, I didn't think that was as good. Because, it was like, you know, you couldn't really talk and stuff, like you could when, you were at the lake, or somewhere, you know, where you were out.	 b	Yeah.

sd	This was like everybody came into town and went to this restaurant.	sd	And you have to sit at a table and just,

sd	I didn't like that much.	qy	was it hard to decide who to invite and who not to invite.

nn	No.	qy^d	whoever , wanted to come.

no	What they did was, Well, see what they did was, okay, they wrote to all the initial people, you know, the oldest ones.	b	Uh huh.

sd	then those in turn got a hold of these other ones.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think there was four or five different people, that would call, you know, some of them, if they didn't have their addresses and all on them,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, they told them that what we had to do was when we sent back in our information, we had to tell them how many people were going to be coming, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	And then, when they talked to us or when they sent us the letter, you know, to get the information and all, it asked, you know, will you be willing to bring	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you had to check off what all you would be willing to bring.	bk	I see.

sd	that's the reason it ended up in a church because, I mean, there was just so many of them.	b	yeah,

sd	But, it turned out so much better like that. Because they knew ahead of time how many people to expect.	b	Yeah.

sd	Now if there was a sickness or something like that, I mean, you know, you're not going to lose that many.	b	Sure.

b	Right.	qo	But how about like because of divorce and stuff like that?

b	Okay well,	sd	and they are both remarried

sd	if you wanted them both to come, then you would have put that down on the list	b	Yeah.

sd	and you would have been the one that sent their invitation to them, and ask for their information.	b	Yeah.

sd	To send back to those other people.	sd	I'm kind of like, in control over who comes. just from my family.

sd	Because once it went to the oldest people then they knew who they wanted to invite,	b	Yeah.

sd	then, they sent their little things to us.	b	Yeah.

sd	it was up to me, you know, whether I wanted my kids and, you know, any of my family to come.	b	Uh huh.

 %	So,	 b^r	I see,

sd	like if I didn't want somebody to come, then I just wouldn't send them one of the questionnaires.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So there really wasn't a problem that way.	b	Right,

 %	Well,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, I tell you what, that's the neatest book we've got,	ba	I bet.

sd	and they charged us, I think like, it was like five or six dollars, I can't remember exactly, you know, that we paid for the book to be printed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's not a hard back book, it's just like a, you know, folder type thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, it has everybody that you could ever imagine, and some you couldn't .	ba	How neat.

sd	and, it will be something my kids will have, you know.	sd	I was just thinking of that. What you could tell your kids.

sd	but I know very little about before my grandparents.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, very little about it.	sd	the thing is I know a lot of stories,

b	Yeah.	 sd	So, I mean, I couldn't give an accurate,

sv	Maybe what you could do if you couldn't get into a full family reunion, and you wanted to go back some,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but then usually when you find out some information from like your parents, then you know, you can find somebody else that can tell you something else about these,	b	Yeah .

sd	They don't, encompass, many handcrafts like knitting and that kind of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I go to estate sales, which takes up a lot of time.	b	Uh huh.

qo	Now, what do you mostly do ?	sd	Well, mostly right now I do a lot of sports and stuff like that is my hobbies and do a lot of things with my family as much as possible.

ba	boy .	b	Yeah.

ba	That should be fun.	aa	Yeah.

qw	How old are they?	sd	I've got a little girl who's six and a little girl that's three.

sv	Well, I think that's better than having that party at home .	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, they're, they're looking forward to it.

sd	And, the the, the skating rink does the rest practically, I guess.	b	Yeah,

ba	Boy, what a help that is.	b	Yeah .

sd	Well, not that long.	bh	Really?

sd	We moved here from Enid, Oklahoma.	b	Oh.

sd	So, we're originally from Virginia, this part of the country.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, we did spend twenty years in Norman and Enid and loved it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, we needed to get back, to our older parents.	b	Yeah.

sd	The weather is divine.	bh	Really?

ny	Yes.	qy	did you like Oklahoma, while you were there?

ny	Yeah.	qw	what did you all do?

sd	Well, my husband was with, University of Oklahoma and, Phillips University in Enid.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then he went with, a family corporation that has oil and ranching and varied enterprises.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, he just quit a perfectly good job and we came East .	bh	Really?

ny	Yes.	qy	So, is he working there then

sd	He's doing, quite a bit of consulting work and, has been offered a permanent position	b	uh huh.

sd	he's liking this free time actually .	b	yeah.

sd	It's just wonderful after all, these years of working.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	a gal who works, with T I on this project .	b	Uh huh.

sd	mother is my best friend , in Virginia .	b	I see.

sd^t	So , we have spread the word a little bit in this part of the country.	b	I see.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

qw	what is her name?	sd	Her name's Tina .

sd^t	I haven't, I haven't talked to a Tina yet .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd^t	I've only talked to one or two

b^r	Yeah.	sv	So, that's interesting.

ad	Well, you haven't told me, what sports that you are active in.	sd	Well, the sport I like best probably is basketball.

b	Yes.	sd	But, I play in a couple of leagues and occasionally in a tournament or something on a weekend.

ba	Well, I think that's, easy entertainment for a, family, too.	b	Yeah.

^2	Under the, bleachers.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	Well, it's getting, a little hot, isn't it?	na	So to speak.

sv	Or maybe this evening anyway.	b	Yeah.

aa	Very, much so.	sd	we go through Enid, you know, quite a bit.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, well, lot of times we take seventy five

sd	it doesn't.	sd	I've either seen the signs or,

sd	It's, directly across the state from Tulsa.	sd	I know I've seen, the sign somewhere.

sd	Well, Enid is, not, an unknown little city.	b	Yeah.

sd	And it, was, a very, self sufficient, wealthy , town, for a long time, anyway . You know , until, everything happened,	b	Uh huh.

sd	the bottom fell out.	b	uh huh.

sd	But, there's a lot of, old time wealth there that, has helped to stabilize things.	b	uh huh.

sd^e	Something like that.	qy^g	And you really like, it there,

b	Oh.	sd	I've heard so many people talk about that area.

sd	Well it's , pretty.	sd	but they sure, say it's pretty.

sd	we had so many wonderful days.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Isn't it, funny how, your standards change ?	b	Uh huh.

b	Yes.	sd	And it rains, you know, a lot there.

ba	Sure.	sd	But, you get used to it.

sd@	Carolina, this part, is very much like that, too. Very, * two utts? foggy and, misty.	bh	Really?

sd	The moss grows, on the trees in the woods up , eight, ten, feet.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And some people said to me, "Well, that's our wintertime." need to go.	b	uh huh.

fc	And I've enjoyed talking to you.	fc	Well, I have enjoyed talking to you, too.

fc	Thanks so much.	fc	I hope you enjoy, North Carolina.

fc	And I hope you enjoy, and get through that birthday party.	x@	, * slash error Yeah . / * slash error

fc	I do, too .	fc	That's what I hope.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Good bye.

sd	generally I get, you know, most of my news, in the, you know, weekly magazines like TIME, NEWSWEEK and, U S NEWS AND WORLD REPORT. with occasional smatterings of, you know, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL and, of course, the local paper.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So that's why I concentrate on weekly magazines.	qy	Do you think that the weekly magazines provide you with as much detail information as you'd like?

sv^e	I, well, I, I don't think I have the time to really become a student in every article.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so I, I like the weekly magazines, because it gives me, you know, the high points of what's going on.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	But here I am, you know, cheek by jowl with our nation's capital	ba	that's right.

sv	But, it turns out that, that the C N N I think, is great. And for things like hurricanes and fast breaking events	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I don't really, you know, I don't really feel as though I've a gotten sufficient, you know, dose of news that way.	b	Yeah.

b	Yes.	sv	I think it's fairly objective

sv	Well the MERCURY and the, and the CHRONICLE are the only things that are really, can stand up there.	b	Oh.

sd	I use to work at Anteks.	bk	okay.

sd	Anteks, Amdahl and places like that.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	the newspaper I really been impressed with it when I've read it at times, at, well the LOS ANGELES TIMES. Which I've found to be a very good quality , newspaper

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I like a lot of the articles there.

sd	but really, th , on the public T V, you know, MACNEIL LEHRER is an hour's program that I always,	br	Both?

sd	if I watch any news program, it will be MACNEIL LEHRER. and occasionally C SPAN.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and and, and also, they have the, PARLIAMENT'S QUESTION AND ANSWER PERIOD.	sd*	I never say that. /* listen: should "say" be "saw"?

o@	And then, * needs slash mark Yeah.	sv	But it's usually the Prime Minister,

sd	Here's this dude in a wig	sd	Thatcher,

sd(^q)	and I said it's Parliament .	sv	Which could be another of Monty Python.

sd	this is how I discovered, you know, the Prime Minister's, you know, question and answer period, you know.	sd	I have seen that

o	Okay.	o	All right.

ny	yes.	qw	And what do they say about finding adequate child care?

sd	It seems like, even when they have consulted day care centers that are quote unquote reputable, that are sort of like a chain, if I can use that word still you have to deal with the people that, you know, happen to be operating it locally	b	Right.

sd	so it's difficult for them.	ba	Well, we certainly found that to be true.

b	Huh uh.	sd	our children are now eleven and nine.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And we moved away from institutionalized child care if we can call those chain kind of things , like that. by that name. And found that, more creative avenues were the right answer for us.

b^r	Huh uh.	sd	at one point in time we've had au pairs, by trading services with them,

b	Huh uh.	sd	and that worked for a while,

ba	I'm sure that's true.	sd	It takes that mixture of a very mature college student, who wants to do something and yet is willing to give the time, and the interest to the children.

sd	So, I can see where someone, you know, in a position like that, in a live in capacity, would definitely be the way to go if you're lucky enough to have the financial to be able to do that.	ba	Well, that's true,

b	Yeah.	sd	and that's something that we're struggling with now.

sd	but you still have to be realistic, as well, I think.	aa	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	Much as other cultures disagree, our lives don't revolve around our children.

sd	so it's, such a responsibility.	aa	Well, it certainly is.

b	Huh uh.	sd	It is such an honor and a thrill, to be a parent, that most of the time, it's worth it.

sv	Most of the time .	sd	Well, I just have to be honest about it.

b^r	Sure.	sd(^q)	There are those times when I think, gee, if I didn't have children I could be out playing bridge or golf.

sv	it's just a scary thing.	sd	Well, we were lucky when our children were that age,

ba	That's a big plus .	sd	And felt that ,

 b	Right.	 +	feeling of safety.

b	Right.	sd	And were leaving them small children.

b	Huh uh.	sd	But, we also learned something from that experience as our children got older.

b	Yeah.	sd	It's that care givers are not omniscient

b	Huh uh.	sd	they are not all things to all people or all children.

b	Yeah.	sd	The ones that are good with babies tend not to be good with toddlers.

sv	I'm sure that's a whole new ball game.	b	yeah.

sv	since they're both in school, you don't have to worry about a full time person to take care of them.	sd	you don't know what happens after they get in school.

sv	That's something altogether different,	aa	yes.

b	Huh uh.	sd	and the other one, of course can't do the same thing.

ba	of course not.	sd	It has to be somewhere else

aa	No.	aa	No.

aa^r	No.	sd	that will not do.

ba	I'm sure.	 aa	Of course.

b^r	Right.	sd	We are being cooperative,

b^r	Right.	^q	You don't understand this.

b	Huh uh.	sd	That's just the way their minds work.

sv	I guess you find out that you're a much stronger person than you thought, maybe.	sd	Well, I've been finding out that I really am a nice person.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And now, I need it.

sv	Now it's just a reservoir that you tend to regularly, I'm sure.	b	Yeah.

qy	do you feel comfortable, with them coming home after school until you and your wife get home	nn	Absolutely not.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, one of them I would leave unsupervised any time, any place, any where.

b	Huh uh.	sd	the other one I wouldn't leave unsupervised two minutes.

sv	That's just a difference in kids, I suppose.	ba	That's true.

b	Yeah.	^q	one leads the other?

qy	is it the one that needs more supervision that has a bad influence on the older or more mature one?	na	Of course.

sv	How unfortunate .	sv	you don't think that good prevails.

sd	But I do hear my friends talk about it.	sd	we're having such fun,

b	Huh uh.	sd	And we just couldn't wait to have two children so they would be such friends.

b	Yeah .	ar	Wrong.

sd	You know, I think about, wouldn't it be nice,	sd	Just make good friends.

sd	If you could just, have a whole bunch .	^2	Have enough.

sd	By the time the youngest ones are there, you'll have older one to take care of them.	ba	That's true.

sv	It really is.	sd	Well, what's frightening is a parent to see things that you don't really don't understand.

b^r	Huh uh.	sd	And then you don't really know what happened.

b	Yeah.	sd	We gave up on one baby sitter because we came home one night and found pieces of, ribbon, you know, hair ribbon tied in a chair. Where obviously she had,

qy	do you subscribe to magazines yourself?	sd	I don't, subscribe to any magazines at home, because we get so many at work that, I need to read that, I just don't take any at home.

 sd	Of course, anything that appeals to the homemaker since that's my main line of interest.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then once in a while I'll pick up a WORKING WOMAN or something and realize why I don't want to go back to work . What I enjoy about staying home.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	And then you stopped them all.	ny	But, yeah,

sd	I find that, about two years is probably my max on subscribing to one in particular	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I kind of get turned off by it. Other than GOOD HOUSEKEEPING.	b	Uh huh.

sd	GOOD HOUSEKEEPING is the one that kind of sets around for when I'm really have time and I really want to read something, you know.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't get into books too often because I have so many things that I stay occupied with on a general basis,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I enjoy reading parts on travel in the various you know, different ones.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm, read it fast and put it down .	b	Right.

 b	Right.	sd	but otherwise than that, you know, they were, you know, not too useful to me. You know

 sv	and you think, where did I ever put that recipe.	b	Right.

sd	But, that's mainly my, whole idea on	 b	Uh huh.

sd	no matter what it is, air travel or anything and I,	b	Uh huh.

 b	Right,	sd	But, you know, that's basically just about ,

sd	and it was just above my head without having someone there to give me the advice as I went along.	 b	Uh huh.

 %	but, Okay?	b	Right.

ad	All right, I guess we might as well end our conversation at this point.	 ad	Okay.

qw	how long have they been recycling there in Virginia? .	sd	actually quite a, a while.

aa	uh huh .	fp	Hello.

b	Uh huh.	fa	I'm sorry

b	Uh huh.	sd	I live in an apartment

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	there it is,

fp	Hello.	fa	sorry about that .

bd	you're okay,	b	Yeah.

o	okay .	sd	anyhow, they have facilities here in my apartment complex for recycling paper only.

qy	have you recycled plastic also?	nn	No,

sd	we have out here up until just this last year in on you are town there wasn't any really good way,	b	Uh huh.

sd*	they had some bends, * sp: bins around that we could find and put them in	b	Uh huh.

sd	it wasn't very well advertised	b	Uh huh.

sd	but recently, the refuse department has, is working on getting a system going where we will actually have, a bend that we put things in for recycling these other things	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it should be good,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think it's a marvelous idea when I just think of the papers that I dump out	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just hate to think about it.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, I mean, a lot of people, you know, right at the vending machines, they have receptacles that, you know, you can just pop your cans in

b	Uh huh.	sd	and near the, Xerox machines they have places, you know, for your, paper,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, I keep a little box at my desk, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and as I'm using the white paper, you know, I just throw it right in there,

sv	I guess one of the things, I think, that needs to happen is we need to be better informed about, about it,	b	Uh huh.

sv	there's needs to be more public, service programs or something that would let us know had happens to it and helps us to become enthused about it because of what is happening	aa	Yeah,

sd	I've seen a few things but not very much, really	b	Uh huh.

sv	I'd like to know, for instance, when they say, plastic, all plastic, what kind of plastic, can you put all together or, is there some reason not to,	aa	Exactly.

sd	I don't know	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I'd be glad to organize it, if they'd tell me what it is I'm doing because that would be really helpful. / * sep. utt? because as D ?	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so all the monies are donated, you know, for the recycling to Children's Hospital, which I think is an excellent idea, there, you know, because the other, public,

sv	Now that gives, you a little bit of incentive there.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	before they started the recycling plan, which at work they've only been doing since January first of this year, I had had everyone in my department recycling

bf	Saving them for you,	sd	and then I would haul them, you know, here to this place for the Children's Hospital Fund which got people really going into it,

sv	I think helping us be more enthusiastic about it, helping us maybe using the money for something special that would be like paying off the national debt .	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think there needs to be a little bit more in the area of, advertisement, and public letting you understand, more of what it is you're doing, why you're doing it, how it's done and, what happens to it because I think that would help a lot.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, I've seen a definite trend, you know, towards more recycling, everywhere, you know, even at McDonald's, you know, with their use of no, foam containers anymore.

sd	I'm glad, to see some of these things, I think.	b	Right.

sv	People are becoming more conscience all the time that it's necessary to do, and that we need to somehow get away from the fact that we have to have everything individually wrapped,	b	Right.

sd	I'm that's about my, , some on recycling	b	Yeah .

fc	but I enjoyed talking to you.	fc	Okay,

fc	bye now.	fc	Okay.

qy^d	and your occupation is teaching?	na	I'm a substitute teacher.

b^m	Substitute teacher.	qy	is this Pat I'm talking to now?

sd^e	it is.	b	Yeah,

ad	Well, I was just trying to make an introduction, here .	aa	okay.

sd	and, and I haven't told you I'm going to be at a different school this year, now.	b	Oh.

sd	I've just gotten another job at an elementary library at Barron.	sv	Well, I bet you're, you may dress differently, then, for that.

sd	So I'll probably be wearing slacks as often as I do because I'm, if I'm going to be down on the floor messing with them, I'm not going to wear nylons and, you know nice nylons and dresses.	sd	Well, What I wear sometimes depends on how cold I think the school might be or what room I might be in since I'm a sub, and have different rooms to go to. And always carry a sweater.

sv	Well, of course, you've been at Clark enough that you know it's always cold .	aa	Yes.

qy^d	But, you don't know, I guess at some of the other schools you go to unless you've been there.	nn	No,

b	Right.	sd	And it's interesting to notice when you go to different schools that some are a little more fancier than others and have a very casual,

sd	she just didn't like sloppy dressing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and in the winter, you know, I maybe wear longer sleeve shirts than I do in the summer. And add a heavier jacket or, you know, wear jackets more in the winter than I do in the summer.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't really work in a profession that requires that I wear a business suit and, you know, look really,	b	Right,

b	Yeah .	sd	and you have to have the color for that particular school if you choose to participate in

 b	Right.	 +	spirit week.

qy^g	And you never know that, though sometimes when you're going in, do you?	nn	No,

b^r	right.	sd	And then many schools on a particular day during, I guess football season, maybe all year long, they wear the school colors for, game day which,

^2	On what, Thursday.	b	Right,

sd	so you're aware ahead of time of what's going on.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, because some of the teachers I know wear, dress up jeans, not sloppy looking jeans but tapered jeans that they've had dry cleaned so they have got the crease	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, if you're going to tell the kids they have to dress up, I guess you can tell the teachers that, too.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I think it varies, it just so much.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you can see in some of the departments in some of the schools, like history at Clark, they're all pretty fancy.

 b^r	right.	sd	And they'll just wear your common, ordinary, you know, whatever you might might say,

sd	there's a couple teachers up there that do dress up more than others.	b	Right.

b	Right.	sd	And so you try to maybe follow those if you know you're going there,

sd	or, there's, There's usually, yeah, there's usually something going on that, would, cause that to happen	^2	Or you're going to be observed.

sv	some of those male coaches, that might really,	b	Right.

sd	I mean we've got coaches that teach health for five periods and then have athletics sixth period	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, see, that's what I would think.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That's what I would think.	sd	But, they don't look, you know, they don't wear their sweat pants or anything.

sd	Course, we had one coach, one period he'd teach P E and the next period Health and then a period of P E	 sd	Those I can understand.

sv	and that's hard.	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess the teachers will have to follow suit with a dark skirt and a white top	sd	I don't think we'll ever get to that.

b	You don't think so.	nn	No,

sd	and it's not at some of the private schools,	sd	It certainly makes it easier to dress.

sd	but even there's a couple public schools in Dallas where the kids wear uniforms and the teachers, you know, dress in accordance with that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean it's a lot of trouble to take care of that.	b	Uh huh.

 %	and,	 b	Yeah,

 sv	And then the girls,	 +	that that will come about.

b	Right.	b	Yeah,

sv	not in Plano.	aa	No

sd	but they said in the Dallas schools that that helps their educational process there.	sv	Well, I think it does.

sd	Highland Park's thinking about going that route.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and then I think that's going to push teachers to dress a lot more professionally than they do.	b	Yeah,

qy	Do you manage the money?	sd	Well, we talk about it,

qy	Are you married?	ny	yes.

bf	You are.	aa	Yes.

sd	My husband always says he earns it, and I have to spend only what he earns .	sd	I don't mind the spending,

sd	and he always threatens that when I spend more than, what's coming in, I have to go back to work	b	I see.

sd	so I manage it .	sd	Well, I'm at home also,

qy	Now, do you actually follow a budget?	sd	Well, we pretty well do.

sd	and so I really don't have the obligations there any more that we have to balance to you know, get things together for them,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I try to keep my MasterCards and things paid currently	b	Right.

sd	and I put things on there that I think I'm not going to get to	b	Right.

sd	but for the most part, our mortgage and our utilities at this point, we're in a new home, and, they take a pretty big chunk compared to what they used to	b	Yeah.

sd	but we make sure that we just do not buy unless we really can see how we're going to pay for it ahead	b	Right.

qy	do you get into car,	na	Well, we had new cars, always until about four years ago,

sd	and I said look, you guys are all into car payments,	b	Right.

sd	and it has eighty two thousand miles on it	b	Uh huh.

sd	Believe it or not, we did, we found one, one newer	ba	no,

sd	the worst part is, it's the same color	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I said, you know how when you have a bad one, you say, never again	ba	That's right .

sd	I said, well, we had one, and we found one with just seventeen thousand miles on it	ba	Wow.

sd	and we still know now that we have this car to put all the miles on.	b	Right.

sd	and we intend to replace our other one with a much newer car in the next couple of years, or next year probably.	qr	Do you, buy from dealers or from individuals?

sd	and it depends, because I don't like to sell what we're trading in to an individual unless we have done that when we had a really good one that we wanted to sell	b	Right.

^q	You're going to get one shot at us	b	Yeah.

qo	So, Mike, what are your opinions on, trial by jury?	^h	Well I work for an insurance company

bf	but leave it up to the more experienced person who knows how it fits into the, kind of the rate for different .	aa	exactly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	When you get one way out like that

b	Right.	sv	You know, they're not going to sit there and lose money.

b	Right.	sv	So it all comes filtering down to us all individually.

b	Right.	sv	And, granted some people need to be compensated if they have really been wronged, you know.

qy	Do you think the jury should have a dollar figure for losing an arm, a dollar figure for losing different body parts?	no	I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think maybe you look at, the age of the person and their station in life and, how much longer they have of work years that they would have to put up, you know, with that.

b	Huh.	sv	I think it has to be some kind of common sense applied there.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that can be part of continuing education, maybe for judges .

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know. .

b	Right.	sd	You know, to get into the economics of things,

ba	That's true.	sd	If it's a company, you know that they're insured. Unless the award is so staggering that it goes all beyond their layers of insurance which is another pet peeve of mine when they do award punitive damages,

b	Huh.	sv	I think those should be uninsurable.

bf	As opposed to the insurance paying the bills,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	for honest mistakes where they've done something and something happens.

qw	or how does that work?	sd	Well, I was just talking about any company.

bf	your talking about corpor ,	sd	and, somebody is on the premises

b	Sure.	sd	and one of the employees actually is driving by with a forklift

b	Okay.	sv	Sure.

sv	But in some instances you're going to put companies out of business by taking that stance, if they have to take it out of their own retained earnings.	ar	Well I'm not talking about any loss.

b	Uh huh.	sd	lately the courts have been deciding that those could be paid for by insurance too.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	So again, it never really penalizes, the company doing the wrong.

b	Right.	sd	They can go right on doing the same old thing they always used to.

b	Okay.	sv	Then I think they ought to have to pay something out of their own pocket.

qw	so, how do you think we've changed in the last ten to twenty years?	sd	I'm at a little bit of a loss,

b	Uh huh.	sd	things haven't changed a whole lot.

b	Really.	sv	People are being I don't know, a little le , a little less bigoted in some ways,

b	Uh huh.	sv	seems to me.

b	Yeah.	sv	Well, it seems to me that civic freedoms are more restricted

qw^d	where'd you live at,	sd	I lived in Akron, Ohio.

sd	I'm from , Illinois,	b	Oh.

qw	how long you been in Dallas?	sd	about eight years.

bh	really?	sv	In fact in the eight years I've been here it seems to me it gets to be more and more restrictive place to live. I think,

sv	you know, as you're talking like police and stuff like that it's definitely a tough job to do.	b	Yeah,

sd	I agree.	sd	and maybe that has a lot to do with it.

sv	to me there seems to be a little bit of a decline in the family values.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	 sd	you know I'm no longer a teenager in high school.

sd	I think there's more pressure like on both parents to work, and things like that than there used to be	t3	Hello.

sv	that's one thing I see a lot more, you know, double income families and a lot more like baby sitters raising the kids and things like that, I guess.	aa	Yeah,

ba	that's for sure.	sv	you can't make it,

ba	that's right.	sd	I guess, when I was growing up, it was still the ideal to get a home and buy house,

b	Yeah	sv	you know, you just don't buy a house,

sv	the ways our tax laws and stuff are structured, you can't ever catch a break until you can get into a house in a lot of ways,	b	Yeah.

^h	so, I'm trying to think of anything else that's changed over the last ten or twenty years.	b	Yeah,

aa	I agree.	sv	and sooner or later there's going to be a turn around.

sd	but I don't know at what point,	sv	But I think it's going to be at the expense of the middle class,

b	Yeah,	sv	so, usually is I think.

b	Yeah.	sd	It's hard for me to say.

bh	Do you?	ny	Yeah.

qw	What, department do you work in?	sd	I'm in semiconductor.

sd	I'm in semiconductor division too.	b	Yeah.

qw	So. How long you been with them, since you moved down here?	sd	About eight years,

sd	I'm over at the Center One building.	b	Yeah,

qw	What floor?	sd	Two.

qy^d	second floor, you work with, linear.	ny	Yeah.

qy	Do you, do you know Alec Morton?	ny	Yeah,

sd	so I'm pretty familiar with,	qy	Are you D A D or something up there?

sd	His reputation precedes him.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sd	T A D,

sv	I guess if this is the only place you've lived, Lubbock is a lot different than Dallas.	b	Yeah,

sd	I mean, here in Dallas everything is just real rush, rush.	b	Yeah,

qy	Is there a DeVry in Akron?	no	I don't even know

bk	Oh,	sd	I haven't been up there in years.

sv	Sounds like you haven't been back there in a while.	aa	No,

qy^d	You still have relatives back there	ny	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sv	Catch them next year probably.

qw^t	how long are we supposed to talk here?	no	I don't know,

sd	well my kids are probably needing me to go	b	Okay,

fc	well, it's nice talking to you.	fc	Yeah,

fc	Talk to you later.	 fc	All righty,

qo	Well, Stephanie, what's your position on gun control?	sd	Well, on a scale of one to ten, being ten, no, kind of legislation and zero being, total ban, I probably would lean more towards six or seven.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I lived in Massachusetts for two years

qr	Now was that just on handguns or was that on rifles?	sd	any kind of firearms.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

qy	And that didn't help at all?	 nn	No,

sv	I guess I would tend myself to be more towards the, like three, where I don't think you should necessarily ban guns by any means,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you know, you shouldn't be able to go out there and just buy one you know, right off the shelf.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And, so, I think that kind of control would be good,	b	Yeah.

sv	and they thwarted the robbery attempt.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I don't think I probably ever would, although I would like to know how to handle one,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you just never know when you might come into contact with one.

qy^d	did you, were you brought up in a family that hunted	nn	No.

ba	How about that.	sd	And he lived in Massachusetts and had to get rid of all his guns,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and really my only experience with a gun was shooting a pistol and not knowing how to hold it right

ba	jeez.	sd	And so that was really the only experience that I've had with guns

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I think that if I learn how to use one, I would feel better.

sd	you couldn't be inconspicuous, when you walked into a store stuff like that,	b	Yeah.

sd	Now of course, you know, in this world anytime you've freedom you can be able to get anything you want.	aa	Yeah,

sd	like today they just introduced what's called the Brady bill. The seven day mandatory waiting period, on getting any guns.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I think that, Shoot that's a good idea.	sv	I would definitely support that.

ba	sure.	sd	that kind of, to me it is more like vigilantism .

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, and it kind of scares me especially with all the shootings that have been going on, in L A, on the freeways,

ba	that's crazy .	sd	and then you come here in the Dallas area,

fc	Good bye.	fc	Okay,

 o	you've done.	 sd	Our most recent series of projects I guess, inside was, we remodeled a bathroom recently.

qo	Well, how did it go?	sd	Well, it went pretty well, other than the fact that we encountered some, problems that you run across in older homes with plumbing, which one thing led to another,

ba	Gee, like starting over, I guess.	sd	It wasn't one of those,

b	Uh huh .	sd	and by the next Sunday it was done.

sv	once you get it done, then you probably won't have that problem again.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	you've got an older house?	ny	Yes.

sv	They are built a little bit more sturdy than ,	sd	Well, that's the thing that surprised me, because once I got into the plumbing everything in there was copper,

b	Right.	sd	and it was all soldered.

ba	is that right.	sd(^q)	That's what drove me bananas, because, you know, I'm going to the hardware store saying give me plastic pipe and and cement to fit them together

b	Yes.	sd	and nothing wanted to go,

^2	And just start at square one.	b	Really.

sv	Well, and then if you do it wrong .	sd	I was very fortunate, in the fact that, when I made the installation of the sink and everything bolted up and we turned the water on nothing leaked,

^2	Everything went all right.	sd	everything worked.

sv	That's the type of thing you cross your fingers and are glad when that happens.	sd	Well, I expected something to leak, you know left a fitting loose, or didn't use teflon tape on one of them or something like that.

b	Right.	sd	But it all came together,

bf	All worked out all right,	qo	How about you?

sd	well probably the last thing I did was, paint and wallpaper kids room	b	Uh huh.

sd	This must have not been a very good quality, because it just hasn't stood up very well.	qw	What kind of paint?

sd	it was flat	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they say you ought to use your gloss mainly in your kitchens, and things like that.	b	Yeah,

sv	I don't know if it was just the.	qy	Was it not washable paint?

sd	you know, so you're supposed to be able to wash it	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't know how else to explain it.	qw	What color is it?

sd	It's pink.	b^m	Pink,

sd	just didn't turn out quite as nice as I would have liked	qy	Did you, require more than one can of paint?

sd	but I think it only took one, can.	qy^g	You didn't have to mix paint then, right.

nn	No.	bk	Okay.

sd	and then } they add the color.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	You know what I'm saying	ny	Yeah.

sd	And then I wall papered a couple of walls,	qw	How'd that go?

sd	Well, that was the first time I've ever wallpapered,	qy^g	Kind of fun, isn't it.

no	That's an education in itself.	b	Really.

sd	first of all it takes quite a few rolls, even a small room, if you're trying to match a design.	sd	Repeating patterns is what you have to check for when you buy your paper.

sd	I got a Mickey Mouse print is what I got.	b	Yeah.

sd	And so a lot is wasted.	sd	Normally it will tell you on the roll how often a pattern repeats.

sd	See, I didn't even think to look for that.	b	Yeah.

sd	one of them was just a different color pink, is what it ended up being.	qy	When you did your papering did you start in the middle of the wall?

sd^e	I didn't.	qrr	Or did you start at the edge?

sd	then you had to cut around the closet and cut around a window	b	Uh huh.

fp	good morning.	fp^m	Good morning.

qy	Do you have recycling in Sachse?	ny	Yes,

bh	really?	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	And it's twice a week?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	Apparently the trucks that they had, lined up, they needed the parts for, Saudi Arabia .	b	Oh.

qy	But, do you recycle?	na	my kids do .

b	Uh huh.	sd	Put it that way.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that's been their summer money

ba	that's great.	aa	Yeah.

sd	My daughter was going, to Camp Goddard, which is through the Plano school system, you know in the fall couple of years ago	b	Uh huh.

sd	and from there we now recycle glass and newspapers and, aluminum cans and plastics.	bh	Really?

ny^r	Uh huh .	bf	is that the same way as with the aluminum cans where you go

sd	but that's okay.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's amazing how much plastic you generate.	b	Yeah,

b^r	Yeah.	sd(^q)	because when the kids first went down, I said, you know that's great

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it's amazing how many cans you go through. And how fast they accumulate.

sd	and how much we have reduced our waste. You know, that we're generating a week.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we said to them, if you recycle, you know, you'll go two weeks without having to put out the green container.	b	Yeah.

sd	The other thing he does, that my husband a real stickler about is we don't collect our grass clippings.	b	Really.

sd	he got a little mulcher thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that has cut down a lot in what we throw out.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I can't mow the yard with the grass catch on it.

 b	Yeah.	sd	So I just mow it and leave it.

b	Yeah.	sd	It just soaks in.

sd	actually they say that you're wasting fertilizer if you're not, catching your grass clippings.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's amazing.	b	Yeah.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	I like it better doing it.

ba	that's true.	sd	and you zip through it quicker.

sd	Well, I really think you're going to get hooked on plastics and paper before you know it.	ba	we probably will.

sd	We keep a large plastic, you know, a garbage bag in the garage.	b	Yeah.

sd	and then, you know, every few weeks we have a recycling center like near Wal Mart.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I feel like at least we're doing something.	b	Yeah.

sd	If everyone were to recycle just their newspapers, they would save thousands and thousands of trees a day. A day, just from not throwing out your newspapers.	b	Really.

sv	And, when you read that you think, well gee, maybe it is a big deal, you know.	sd	what makes me sick is when they show the dump sites you know, and, how big they are.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Or like in New York, the barges that that go up and down the river

b	Yeah.	sd	and they don't have any place to put it

sv	and that's really not necessary.	aa	No.

sd	It would be real nice if they just came by and just picked up.	b	Yeah.

qw	Now what do they pick up?	sd	They pick up the plastic, the glass, and the newspaper.

qy	they do?	ny	Uh huh.

qy	And do you have to sort that?	sd	And they will do the alum ,

qrr	Or do you just put it all in.	nn	No,

b^r	Right.	sd	The kids keep those .

qy	You're doing the newspapers and the glass?	ny	Uh huh.

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	So we don't have the newspapers but the plastic and the glass .

sd(^q)	My husband would, come home and go through the trash and say, you threw this away .	ba	Uh!

sd	And now we think before we throw anything away.	aa	It is.

sd	it's just making it a habit that's hard .	ba	I know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I put them in a big bag anyway

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then they dump the bag out

sv	that's a lot of fun.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they have a deposit on all their bottles and cans.	bh	really? .

sv	The reason there seems to be so much was the fact that the police now had advanced, reporting methods, with computers and other devices.	bf	Compile more statistics.

sv	and those statistics in turn got them bigger budgets.	b	Uh huh.

sv	However, I have been persuaded, lately, I guess, simply by the, overwhelming data that seems to be available that there is indeed a lot more violent crime.	aa	More especially where you are.

sd^e	I am in Washington D C.	b	Yeah,

sd	and that again is a sort of media perception there's some absolutely lovely and marvelous and peaceful areas in Washington. Regardless of the racial makeup,	b	yeah.

sd	there's pockets of violence that is so violent that they,	ba	It just really grabs your attention.

aa	Yeah.	sv	It just makes the whole place seem like that.

sd	when, previous secretary of, educa , Bennett, I think his name was, became the drug czar, for, President Bush, he was going to focus on this area and do something about it	b	Yeah.

sd	and I see that even he was met with, with little success, even though I guess a quite a bit of money and other, planning efforts went into that.	qo	what do you think is causing all this,

sv	One I believe that this is a function of, the violence that young people see on television and the movies.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think it's Corpus Christi, that had the highest rates per hand gun death in America per capita.	b	Yeah,

sd	I mean the Saturday night special stuff	b	Yeah.

qo	what are your views?	b	Well, yeah,

aa	Yes.	sv	and then you start making a movie and there's no call for something violent,

aa	well that's, that's the impression I get, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	it has to be even, magnified to attract people's attention. I guess, to have them spend money on something like that.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And I am sure that it does form role models for young men and young women	b	Yeah.

sv	And I, I, I have to think that it has some influence on it.	sd	I listened to a radio talk show today at lunch time Rush Lynn Bottom / * sp: Limbaugh

b	Yeah.	qy^d	I do not know if you listen to him or not,

nn	No.	sd	he's on A M,

ny	yes.	sd	and they were just really coming down on him because of just some of the things that he believed in, some of his morals.

b	Yeah.	sv	it seems anymore that, if you have, you know, this type of a moral stance, that people come down on you.

sv	and since we have decided to put everybody in jail that commits a crime now, that's complicated the entire process.	b	Yeah.

sd	or. I do not mean attachment and responsibility,	sv	Well, nobody feels responsibility to do something.

aa	that's right.	b	Yeah.

sv	the violence on television and in the movies would be contrary to my beliefs in that.	b	Yeah.

sv	it does seem to be a higher need for something of that sort.	b	Yeah,

sv	And the sacrifice is not that great.	qh	How many studies have to be done to show that there is a link between, you know, what you see and how yo ,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, what you see affects how you think and therefore what you do.

sv	but yet that does not seem to have effected the amount of violent right in the state.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	we have got a lot of that influence.

qo	How are we doing in recycling?	sv	Well, I think we need to do more.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I have a hard time of you know, having a place, separating my trash,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, you know, I just haven't gotten that dedicated yet .

sd	and we try to do a lot	b	Uh huh.

sd	but there's still a lot more we can do.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I noticed in one of the sales catalogs this weekend they have like a, a clothes hamper kind of thing that, you know, you lay your string in, then you put your papers in there tie them all up and bundle them up,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I figured I might get me one of those because we don't always read the newspaper.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we just chuck it.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, then I just, you know, bundle it up and put it on you know, the front walk ev , you know, every Monday or every other Monday, and have them pick that up,

b	Yeah.	sd	but that's the extent of what I've done.

b	Yeah	sd	it's not always convenient to do it.

sd	I can imagine what it's like up there.	b	Yeah,

sd	See, I went out to Payless Cashways here a couple of days ago, as a matter of fact, and got me one of those little can crushers that I could put on the wall	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's just outside the garage door	b	Uh huh.

sd	so every time we drink a Coke or whatever we crush the can and just drop it into the bucket.	qy	Do those can crushers work good?

sd	and it's actually metal	b	Uh huh.

sd	I didn't want to buy a plastic one.	aa	Yeah

sd	but it was only like seven dollars, not too bad.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	qy^g	but, you know, for other kind of cans, it'd probably only take aluminum cans like that, don't they.

sd	it's pretty tough.	b	Yeah,

sv	you could probably just, you know,	sd	sometimes, even with the newspaper they say they'll only take certain types of paper, you know,

sd	or, see, I work at T I.	b	Yeah,

sd	We do a lot of recycling out there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but that's just now come on board.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we're just now getting on board to recycling ever since this big Earth Day thing came out, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	T I is doing it pretty well nation wide, I'm sure.	b	Uh huh.

b	yeah.	sd	and I think they're just fine.

sd	and what it is is a recycled paper bag	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's just a paper bag	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, and it's really cute.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, I think we're doing better and better all the time,	b	Yeah

sv	there's not going to be any room, shortly.	aa	No,

sv	I guess they still ship it out on barges somewhere.	aa	Yeah,

sv	But I think we're getting better at it	b	Yeah.

sv	I think there's quite a bit more we could do.	t3	Girls, put that away.

sd	But, you're right sometimes it does seem like it's more trouble than what it would be worth.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, seems like you're so busy anyway,

ba	it sure is.	sv	I think if, you know, the cities, locally, you know, they'd get more programs going so that you could do that, it'd make it a lot easier.

sv	I guess the schools will get into it, too, sooner or later.	b	Yeah,

sd	and we just don't have any place to store those kind of cans.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, if we go out and pick up a bunch of cans from people, sure they'll save them for us, there's no problem there.	b	Uh huh.

qh	But what do you do with them in the meantime?	ba	That's right.

sd	Now I don't want a garage full of cans .	ba	That's right,

sv	they're not prepared for it.	aa	No,

sd	that's for sure.	ba	That's right,

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, pick it up.

sd	About the only thing I really recycle around here is aluminum cans.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, if we all try a little bit, a little bit goes a long way.	aa	Yeah,

sv	If everybody tries to do just a little bit, and a little bit more then we'll get there. thank you for talking to me.	ba	That's true.

fc	no problem,	fc	Okay,

fc	All right,	fc	Bye bye.

sv	I think ... I think we have a lousy school system.	qw	And what do you think that problem is?

sv	They're social services.	sv	That seems like you've thought this through quite a bit before.

sd	So I have some rather strong opinions.	 ba	That's interesting.

sd	and I'm sure they're colored by what I've edited.	qy	Do youself have children who are or have been through the public school system?

sd	And I was not very happy with the results.	bk	I see.

sd	Well, I think I would start with getting rid of about two thirds of the administrators. And all the auxiliary personnel. The school bureaucracy that exists mainly to perpetuate itself.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	And then I would use the money that we've paying them to, provide some special help in training and particularly, mentor teachers to work with the beginning teachers and the teachers who may have been at it a long time but have been making the same mistakes for a long time .	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then let them try some innovative things and see what works. And then, have some sort of mechanism for passing that knowledge along to other teachers who could benefit from the same sorts of things. And then from the parents side, have the parents support the school. Get involved.	b	Uh huh.

sd	instead of becoming adversaries to the teachers so that the teacher's in the middle.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I've done about all I can do which is get the manuscript in good shape so that it can be published and read by a lot of people.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've got a lot of things to keep me busy.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	Anything political?	no	Well, my mother was on the school board. As we were coming up.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, that, basically, is the extent to which our family has been directly, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, that's the extent of which I guess that's more than some people, less than others .

sv	That's more than a lot .	sd	I would, tend to agree with you that there is a problem .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And if there was a way through the public mind, set that image to be a little higher esteem, a little more prestige to being a teacher.

b	Yeah.	sd	And then if you paid them more, you'd also be able to demand a higher quality product out of them.

sv	the thing that worries me about that is that if you just raise salaries across the board, you're going to be, rewarding people who've been doing a lousy job. instead of getting the, improvement that we want.	b	Sure.

sv	So we'd have to have some way to, reward and recognize the teachers who are doing a good job and give them a, a pat on the back and respect and some honor and more money.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's hard to tell.	sv	so it's very difficult to say that this teacher is doing a better job than this other one, other than I guess you kn , how a person scores in the beginning before the class and then after the class.

b	Yeah.	 sd	also, I've thought about the idea of making teaching and the ,

ba	Now that's a very good suggestion.	sv	rather than throw someone into that environment, you know, it

sv	I think that, at least what I used to observe in student teaching, was that some college kid who might not be all that bright to begin with, was thrown into a class room with a teacher who was harried and overworked and, had too many kids to handle and too many things to do and too many interruptions to pay much attention to the student teacher.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then the student teacher didn't stay but about six weeks.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So there really was no time to try, much of anything and get significant feedback that would help the student teacher improve very much.	b	Sure.

sv	There are lots of things that could be done in that line, including things like video taping. Because it wouldn't be hard with all the electronic equipment that's around these days to video tape, either a master teacher teaching a class so that then, students could watch that and, criticize the methods used and analyze it. Figure out what worked and what didn't work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then also to video tape the student teachers so they could correct their own performance.	b	Sure.

sv	I don't think that's going to work.	sv	I think, especially in the younger years you need to have more of the person contact rather than just the fact that your machine being fed information to learn how to learn.

sv	And then everybody else is stuck with that, regardless of what they want to teach.	b	Huh.

ng	Well, that's the two states that adopt on a state wide basis.	bk	I see.

 sd	and all you had to do is just get your share of those adopted in the individual school districts.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, you know, a third of the Texas market with its millions of kids is a heck of a lot of textbooks.	b	Sure.

sd	And then the states that either don't adopt on a state wide basis or don't have as many kids, just have to follow along and take what Texas gets.	b	Right.

sd	but Texas, adopts state wide all the way through the twelfth grade.	b	I see.

ba	Sure is.	aa	Definitely is.

sd	And I hope maybe we're going to get somewhere with a little more attention being paid to it with, Reagan's, new education secretary you know, trying to produce some new programs anyway.	b	Right,

fa	Excuse me.	fc	Well, I've enjoyed speaking with you.

fc	Thanks.	fc	All righty.

sd	That's about all.	sd	Well, I think basically we're in a lot of agreement, in that I certainly agree that for any case involving serious injury to another person then maybe that needs, some kind of legal definition.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But for anything involving that, trial by jury certainly should be mandatory.

b	Uh huh .	 sv	But there should be with our overworked, judicial system,

b	Really.	sv	And maybe instead of, just kind of blowing it off just spend a day or a day and a half like most folks do, maybe we should commit to spend a week,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and each case is presented to that group of twenty five,

b	Right.	sd	you know, that kind of stuff you can just turn to the judge and say, your pleasure your honor,

b	Yeah.	sv	But the way our court system works, that guy is going to have to hang around in jail or out on bail or something like that for an extreme period of time.

b	Right.	sv	I just think our system is overworked,

ba	that could work.	sv	You know, kind of off what we've been talking about here, I believe that we've become almost a litigious society where everyone is very quick to sue or to threaten to sue and that kind of stuff,

b	Uh huh.	 sv	You know, maybe, instead of being so quick to sue you, if you have a disagreement with someone, instead of tying up court and time and that kind of stuff, nee , maybe you,

b	Yeah.	sv	and let either he or that group decide whether or not you have a real case.

ba	right	sv	And you know, let's get rid of some of this harassment suing.

sv	So that's right off that same kind of principle.	ba	You bet,

sv	so you know, that could work,	b	Yes,

sd^r	Judeo Christian ethic.	ba	Well, that may be right.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think we both know that we're talking about the foundation of our legal society.

b^r	right.	sv(^q)	that was sort of the beginning of, Ye shall be treated fairly.

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	I guess the Lord started out with, I'll treat you fairly there as long as you do what I say.

b	Yeah,	sd	I know,

b	Really.	sd	But that's a whole different subject. on the legal system.

ba^r	mine, too.	fc	But it's been a pleasure talking with you.

qw	what part of the country are you from?	sd	I'm living here in Texas.

b	Okay.	sd	Well, that's quite all right.

sd	well, I'm from the Dallas area.	sd	Well, so am I .

ba	well, that's neat.	sd	In fact, I'm at work out at Lewisville.

fc	And it was nice talking to you.	fc	My pleasure.

fc	You too.	fc	Bye bye.

fp	Hi.	fp^m	Hi,

sd	But, I find myself listening to popular music,	b	Yeah.

sd	but that's not by my choice.	b	really.

qo	How about you?	sd	Well, I don't have that , experience to share .

ba	Lucky you.	sd	I do, I do listen to a lot of,

b	Uh huh.	sd	however, I do, I do like a lot of different forms of music

b	Uh huh.	sd	there's such a wide selection,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, if it's not, then I won't.

qo	How do you feel about rap music?	b^m	Rap.

sv	It seems to be so popular these days.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sd	I have strong objections to that.

qy^d	When it was really just starting.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it was about,

b	Right.	sv	And, you listen a lot,

sd	A lot of times you'll hear songs that you know, they're not original, but have been put to a rap kind of a rhythm.	b	Yeah.

sd	and yet, she thought they were brand new, original pieces.	b	Yeah.

ba	That's right.	sv	I think it's kind of absurd, you know, the fact that, you know, they don't really give, you know, the original artist, or the original composer,

 aa	No.	 +	the credit that is really due to them.

sv	I guess there was even a bit of ruckus caused by the M C Hammer, who's really, you know,	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you remember that song.	ny	Yeah.

sd	I can't remember who the artist was on that.	sd	Jimi Hendrix was the original.

br	Who?	sd^r	Jimi Hendrix was the original.

sd(^q)	Because, it was a living person that I'm thinking of that, that said, "You know, hey that, those are my words."	b	Okay.

sd	And, I guess that because they hadn't originally gotten, permission, from him to use it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, he since then has amended that, and paid them his royalties every time the song goes on	b	Yeah.

h	I, I, can't think.	sd	I mean it was just like,

b	Yeah.	^q	you know, that was really great.

sv	They destroyed it.	sv	I think a good one was,

ba	yeah!	sv	and, then the cover version, I mean, I thought, it was pitiful.

sv	and I thought it was hideous.	aa	Yeah.

sv	ugh, I didn't like that either.	b	Yeah,

sd	I remember, I saw him in a concert, when I was,	b	Yeah.

sd	I think it was in high school.	b	Yeah,

sd	It was in J F K Stadium, if I can remember.	ba	man.

 sd	Hundreds of thousands of people is what it seemed like.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I loved,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I was really familiar with a lot of the A O R type music.

b	yeah.	sd(^q)	and you know, I mean, a lot of people they go, they're better than the Beatles,

aa	No .	sv	I mean, the comparison made between New Kids On The Block with the Beatles . It was just,

sv	You can only laugh .	b	Yeah,

sv	I guess our age is showing when, we think that.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I saw some promise, you know, with a lot of the new wave, when it came out, back in the mid and early eighties.

b	Yeah.	h	And then, I don't know

qy^d	Like Paul Simon.	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	Well, you know, really that's not world music.

qw	What do you mean by world music?	sd	Well, world music is,

b	Uh huh.	sd	for example, let's say you're taking like an original Brazilian form of music with a certain style,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, then when they hear it, it's a really, it's another form of music, and, you know, sort of, trying to draw out the best sources.

b	Right.	sd	there are some, you know, types of heavy metal that I really like,

aa	No.	sd	you know, and it's the same way with,

qy^d	So then it becomes a kind of music of it's own, so to speak,	ny	Yeah,

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	so, you know, well a lot of the stuff you hear coming from South Africa now, and from West Africa, that's considered world music, because it's not particularly using certain types of folk styles.

b	Right.	sd	But, they're trying to make it somewhat more modern.

b	Uh huh .	sd	You know, he's a jazz performer,

qy	are they trying to ,	no	I don't know.

sd^t	We've talked our five minutes though.	b	Yeah,

sd	I've been listening to that a lot lately.	b	Yeah,

fp	Hi Norma.	fp	Hi.

qy	Have you taken anything back lately, that you've bought?	sd	Well the only thing we've taken back recently are plants. Shrubbery, that were guaranteed

qw	Well why?	sd	and we had no problem with it.

ba	Very good.	sd	We got our money back.

qr	Well do you think that, consumer goods are generally getting better, or worse in quality?	sd	Well, I believe they're better.

sd	I believe that they're better now,	sv	I think so.

sv	however, I didn't like it very well when the transmission went out on my car with sixty three thousand miles on it.	b	Right .

sv	And I don't like it very well if, when my electric blanket that was only one year old went out on one side.	qy	did you return it?

sd^e	I had moved away.	b^m	No,

sd	and then after one year it started heating only on one side.	b	Huh,

sd	Also, I took an iron back after having it only one year.	b	Oh.

sv	and one year of ironing only once a week is not long enough for it to last.	aa	No,

sd	but I think it was the store.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Wal Mart.	b^m	Wal Mart,

qy	And, well, have you been buying any clothes lately? Any new clothes?	ng	I haven't bought any new clo ,

sv	That was poor quality, I think.	sv	I think it is too,

sv	I wondered if it weren't expensive,	aa	Yes

sv	and they should have put buttons on it that would last forever.	aa	That's right,

b	Yes.	 +	half of it raveled out.

qy	You spent that much on your dresses?	ny	Yeah,

sv	You're really divulging very personal information.	sv	But I think it should have been better than that, for that money, is what I mean.

sv^t	Well I believe that we've been talking about five minutes.	b	Okay,

fc	And Norma, it is just wonderful to talk to you.	fc	Good talking to you too,

fc	Bye, bye.	fc^m	Bye, bye.

ny	yes.	qy^d	You do!

sd^e	very much.	fe	Well, wouldn't you know .

sd	As a matter of fact, I prefer public television.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I particularly enjoy the English comedies, and the English mysteries.	b	Yeah,

ny	Yes.	bk	Okay,

na	Vociferously.	bk	Okay,

b	Yes.	sv	And, the plots are more, challenging, you know, than the sitcoms of regular T V.

sv	Well, unfortunately for us at least here in the United States, the only access we have to that of course is public television.	b	Yeah.

sd	I also am very fond of great performances, in that regard.	b	Uh huh,

nn	No ,	sv	that was a scream.

sd	as a matter of fact, Turner Broadcasting, has been broadcasting all of the James Bond movies, every night this week,	b	Uh huh,

sd	so I have concentrated on watching James Bond movies, this week .	sd	I used to like him too,

sd	Well, they're showing LIVE AND LET DIE at this moment,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, it is the first appearance of Roger Moore as double oh seven.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	I was just thinking that today, he did, well, in some of the later movies he looks very effeminate, in his early movies.	aa	Yeah,

o@	but * needs slash yes.	b	Uh huh,

sd	Well, you know when was it, last year or year before last, he was voted the sexiest actor in movies, or something.	sv	He is.

sd	I mean the man is sixty two years old.	sd	I don't care .

sd	And I, I particularly enjoy, I don't know whether you've had a chance to watch it on P B S but the series, YES MINISTER?	b	Yeah.

sd	it was a comedy,	b	yeah,

sd	the Interior Minister in England, with the permanent secretary, and bureaucracy and all that.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it should,

sd	I read as I said, quite a bit.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I read about two or three novels a week, in addition to all the technical stuff.	b	Yeah.

qw	What kind of work do you do?	sd	I'm a Payroll Clerk.

qy^d	At T I?	nn	No,

bk	I see.	sd	I'm from Dallas.

sd	and I just wondered.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think that's something we all ca ,	aa	Yeah,

sd^e	I work for G T E. In Maryland,	bh	Really?

ny	yes.	qw	How did you hear,

sd	they are gathering a data base for voice processing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, that's my field of work also.	b	Oh!

sd	so I called them and asked if I could participate. And, You know send in the forms et cetera and so forth.	b^r	Oh.

co	We could go back to television shows.	qy	Well, you know, speaking of public TV, have you caught any of this series on the Bible?

sd^e	I have.	sd	I've heard well I mean that it's coming out with the idea that the Bible's not true.

sv	you could interpret it that way.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but the interpretation that actually got into the writing of the Bible itself is probably after the what, is it the King James Version when the committee wrote the translation, that so much was lost in the translation, particularly since most of the translations were in Greek.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, for example. In Greek there are seven different words for love.	b	Right.

sv	So, as to those types of interpretations, really made a difference in how one might interpret the Bible now, and what it's at.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but there's too much historical fact involved just from the histories that were developed around that time, that are available. To deny that, at least the majority of it is true.	b	Yeah.

h	So, you know, it depends on how you look at it.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	if you want to say that it's proven that it isn't true, then you can very much look at it that way.	sv	I guess if you're looking for that, you're,

sv	well, Well, you can interpret what the T V show, in the same way that you can interpret the Bible.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, as far as that goes, we at least agree on what we enjoy.	aa	Yeah,

sd	But, I don't know if there is a time limit on this, so,	b	Yeah.

fc	it's been very pleasant talking to you,	fc	It was very nice talking to you.

fc	and have a good evening.	fc	You too.

fc	Good night!	fc	Bye bye.

sd	You know, I used to like ST. ELSEWHERE.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and now, I did like THIRTY SOMETHING	b	Uh huh.

sd	We like that one.	b	Yeah,

qw	and how old are you?	sd	I'm twenty eight.

sd	I think it's wonderful.	b	Yeah,

sd	And then Sunday nights we watch, LIFE GOES ON.	b	Yeah,

qy	Did you see the one on Sunday?	ny	Yes,

sd	That one kid that Becca likes he has AIDS.	b	Yeah,

qw	What time is it there?	sd	it is twenty minutes to nine.

sd	See, I'm twenty minutes to six here .	bf	Three hours difference.

qw	What else do you like?	sd	let's see, I like a lot of different shows.

sd	I never watched that ever in my entire life.	sd	And MATLOCK is another good one I watch.

b	Uh huh.	sd	then during daytimes I like ALL MY CHILDREN.

sd	Talk to my daughter.	sd	ALL MY CHILDREN,

sd	I used to watch GENERAL HOSPITAL when I was a teenager because I,	sd	I quit watching GENERAL HOSPITAL when Leslie got killed.

b	Oh.	sd	So that was a long time ago.

b	Right.	sd	She was my favorite character on there.

sd	I like the people on it, I guess, you know.	sd	I, I like it.

qy^g	well, Tad's going to come back, I bet, do you think?	ny	Yeah,

sd	He'll come back, show up at just the right moment.	sd	I kind of wish that, Nina would come back because she because the story, you know,

b	Oh.	sd	just for a brief visit or whatever, because it never has been resolved with Palmer remarrying, and everything,

sd	and, I forgot about Nina and Cliff, right.	b	Yeah,

ba	So he's out for good.	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	Nina and Cliff?	sd	that's how they left the show, but not in real life.

sd	so, I don't watch it everyday like I did when I had babies.	sd	well, I watch.

sd	so, I don't get to watch,	sd	I watch it everyday, religiously.

ba	no kidding.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I used to be like that .	sd	I'm that way about a lot of different shows.

qy	Now don't they have a new chick on there instead of what's her name?	ny	yeah,

sd^e	That's a show I like.	sd	and then, , the blond headed girl that used to be on NEWHART.

ba	yeah,	sv	I don't like her on it,

sd	Well, I just know which one she is.	sd	She's taken the Suzanne's part,

qy^d	Charlene was Delta Burke?	ng	Charlene was Jean Smart, the blond headed.

sd	and my whole family's home, because I don't allow the kids out on Sunday night you know, because they've got to go to bed and go to school the next day,	b	Yeah.

sv	Those are always pretty cute.	sd	Well, MURDER, SHE WROTE comes on opposite of that,

qy^d	so you don't watch that one instead of,	ny	Yeah

sd	we like that real well.	ad	be sure to watch it tomorrow night because somebody's getting killed on it.

sd	I don't know who it is, though,	qw	Who is it?

o	books.	b	Yes.

sd	Mainly I read the Bible these days.	ba	That's very good.

sd	and Christian literature.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it seems as though if you really want to set side time to read the Bible and you work and and whatever, that pretty well takes up your time for reading.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's getting, to where a just really want to read it.	ba	That's good.

bh	Do you?	sd	And, I like to read, you know, Bi ,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	so I like reading those to her

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, it's real enjoyable. For both of us.

qy	Have you ever read any of Frank E Peretti's?	b^m	Frank E

qw	how old is your daughter.	sd	Five.

sd	and they're all spiritually, oriented,	bh	really?

b	yeah.	qw	What's his name again?

sd	Frank E Peretti,	b^m	Frank E Peretti .

sd	P E R E T T I.	cc	I have to look for those.

sd	because, I love to read his, children's books just ,	^2	Just to read them.

sv	they're great.	ba	That's good.

sd	And it's like, usually about a family of, archaeologists and the spiritual fights that they get into, like, digging in old ruins, and running across, like, the old gods and things.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's real exciting.	cc	I'll have to look for those.

sd	And it also teaches them spiritual warfare you know,	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I like that because it's real easy to, follow for her,

sd	Well, it's hard for me.	ba	That's right .

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I've got a Bible that, has a little bit of a glossary in the back

sv	and especially it's hard to keep your interest in those begats.	aa	Yeah.

b	that's right.	sd	I really do enjoy it.

sd	I've read a lot of his, too.	sd	and I like that,

sd	Can't put them down.	aa	No

b	yeah.	sd	I really do enjoy his.

sv	you know when you're recording you can't remem ,	ba	I know .

sd	Dean, Kratz, or Kranz	qy^d	Judith Krantz?

br	who?	sd	Judith Krantz.

sd^e	it's a guy.	bk	okay.

sd	It's that real, gruesome , horror stories.	b	Oh.

sd	his last name ends in a Z, I know that.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've never read any of his.

qy^d	it's one of his first books, THE STAND.	ny	Yes.

sd	And that seems like all of his books have kind of come from that, I mean.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I thought it was great.	aa	Yeah,

ba	yes .	sd	that was my favorite.

sd	those hedges when they started moving.	b	Yeah,

sd	For some reason that scared me more than anything.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	You could just visualize everything.

sv	And that was a pretty scary movie, too.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah .	sd	but they did you know, do it justice.

ba	That's right.	sv	But, most of the time they don't follow books very well when they make them into movies .

sd	I liked IT as well.	b	Yeah,

sd	That's, another big fat one.	sd	I did, too.

sd	except it broke my heart.	b	Yeah,

sd	I'm a dog lover.	sd	Me, too .

sd^e	it was,	sd	DEAD ZONE.

 br	What?	sd^r	DEAD ZONE.

sd	I've read that one, too.	sv	That was a real good one.

sd	Boy, he just sits down eight hours a day. Just like any other job.	ba	I know it.

sd	That one about the Gypsies, or that, hunger	b	Yeah.

sd	Richard Bachman.	b	Yeah.

sv	he's so prolific.	b	Yeah .

sd	and, after I graduated, I read some of the old classics that I just bluffed my way through and have found that I enjoy them quite a bit, too,	b	Uh huh.

sv	Once you can get into the language,	b	Yeah .

sd	but it's not the same English they speak today.	b	Right.

sd	So it's kind of hard to keep, you know, at it,	ba	That's true,

sv@	their worthwhile. Literature?	sd	that was one of my favorite subjects in school was, literature.

sd	me, too.	sd	I used to love those good, good old books.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I didn't mind doing that at all .

sd	Nathaniel Hawthorne is pretty scary himself.	b	Yeah,

ar	No,	nn	No

sd@	he wrote JANE EHRE, too . / * spelling Eyre?	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

b	uh huh.	ba	that's right.

b^r	right.	ba	Sure is neat .

sd	That's why I like to watch that MASTERPIECE THEATRE on channel thirteen, because they'll take a classic and, televise it you know, put it into a viewing format, more or less.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know it's really hard for me.

bh	Do you?	sd	so it's hard for me to sit down and read,

ba	Well, I can imagine.	sd	but when I do I just love it.

sv^t	Well, I think we've accomplished five minutes	sv^t	I think we have, too.

fc	It's good talking to you.	fc	You, too.

qw	Well, what's your favorite baseball team, Rita?	qy^g	Well, I suppose I'm supposed to say the Rangers, right .

no	Well, that isn't a true false or right or wrong test here.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	Not a Cubbies fan,	nn	No,

bd	Well, that's all right.	sd	I lived in Chicago.

qo	How do you expect them to do this year?	b	Yeah

bk	Okay.	qo	What did you think of the World Series?

sd	and, in South Dakota, the Minnesota Twins are the closest professional sports team to where I was living	 b	Uh huh.

sd	and the other one was country.	qy^g	So you didn't really have a lot of choice, did you.

sd	There's was Twins there, or, you know Skip Williams.	^2	Or country.

aa^r	it sure was.	qo	What do you think going to happen to the Rangers?

sd	Well, I I would like to a , assume that they're going to do better this coming year,	qrr	Or can we predict?

sd	When we moved down, I was able to go to my first, you know baseball game, and thought, this is great, this is incredible.	b	Uh huh.

sd	or rather they adopted me, I guess	b	Uh huh.

sv	But when you go to the ball park, it's really not all that far you know,	aa	No.

sv	and it's so much more exciting watching a ball come at you,	fe	isn't it though.

ba^r	that's right.	sd	Well, I'm a great sports enthusiast,

b^m	The Restaurant Ha ,	sd	The Restaurant Hall of Fame inducted him tonight,

b	Huh.	sd	he doesn't know how many years I mean, to pitch.

b	Right.	sd	He'll be at least one more,

ba	That's right	b	Yeah.

sv	and he's still doing great still doing excellent.	ba	That's right.

qy	Well, didn't he just sign a twelve year contract with the Rangers?	ny	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	But, he certainly is a good example, for the kids.

ba	That's right.	sv	You know, you like to have someone like that you could point to say, see what a fine man, that, he is.

sd	like, Ivan Rodriguez wasn't even born when, Nolan Ryan started pitching.	ba	That's right.

sv	And it's just incredible to think that there are players who are the sons of ball players that used to play against Nolan or with Nolan, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and now their sons are.	sd	he's been a legend for so many years, you know,

sd^e	I wasn't.	b	Yeah,

qy^g	Ryan against Ryan,	na^m	Ryan against Ryan,

ba	Well that is neat.	sd	and, only, Ryan didn't want too much publicity on it because he didn't want his son getting too nervous about this whole thing.

b	Uh huh.	sv	A game is a game, you know.

 b	Right.	sd	but Nolan I think took himself out after a couple of innings or something, you know, of the game

ad	Your turn.	aa	Okay.

qy^d	But not for petty theft?	na	Right.

qy	Well, it should be used as a deterrent do you think?	nd	Well,

qy@	to prevent further, crime? 	ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, you know, that's about the only thing.

sd	Well, you know, there's this old, Jewish, is it, saying about an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.	sv	well, I guess, if it was someone in my family, I'd probably feel that way.

sv	So if you have someone that destroys that value then you want to take steps to, minimize the loss.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Of course, you have to also put value on the criminal.	b	Right.

sv	So if you terminate him, that's a loss of value.	ba	Well, that's true .

sv	In other words, you'd have to murder more than one other person in order to justify taking his life.	^2	Besides him.

sv	So if this guy doesn't make a great deal of money, which is often times the case, then then he's obviously not worth very much	^2	His life isn't worth very much then .

 sv	Of course, one of the things that happens if you use that algorithm, is you find that it's easier to, to, terminate older people than younger people since the integration of their income over the rest of their lives is going to be less. Which means, well	b	Right.

sv	I suppose you could say, well that has something to do with potential for rehabilitation.	b^m	Potential.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Now, are they rehabilitative or not.

sd	But if you're involved yourself, personally	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you're talking about real trauma. I mean trauma that extends beyond the counting of bodies.	ba	I can imagine.

sv	of course, a parent losing a teenage child is about as bad as it could possibly get, I think, in terms of psychological impact.	ba	Yes.

sd	and he is on trial for capital murder.	qy^d	So it hasn't been a long time ago.

 %	but ,	b	Yeah,

qy	Do you have any hobbies?	ny	Yes,

qw	What are yours?	sd	China painting and ceramics.

ba	how great.	sd	I enjoy it.

o	ceramic painting.	sd	I enjoy the china more.

b^m	The china more.	sd	And now that I have my eyes, corrected to the point that I can see the delicate part of china painting, I do enjoy it.

sv	That sounds so interesting.	sd	My husband kept begging me,

ba	How marvel ,	sd	And I said I'll do it for three months

qrr	or do you actually sell it?	sd	I have sold quite a bit.

qy	now, do you work outside of the home?	sd	I have just retired.

bf	You've just retired.	aa	Yes.

sv	what a great hobby .	nd	No,

sd	and he left it up to me if I worked or not.	ba	Wow.

sd	so I enjoy doing my, toppers for my window applications and things like that.	b	uh huh.

sd	But, just when I thought I really enjoyed my hobby, yours sounds great .	sd	Well, my sister is the seamstress of the two of us.

ba	That is excellent.	qw	What part of Ohio are you in?

sd	and I'm just intrigued with it.	sd	If you ever start, be sure and start with I mean a large flat plate.

sd	where you're getting into the delicate work.	ba	That's right.

qw	Now, where did you first get your lessons from?	sd	In Abilene, Texas.

qy^d	Through an adult ed, or strictly a china type,	sd	She just taught china painting.

ba	how marvelous.	sd	then we had so much fun there,

ba	and it's so nice,	br	Beg pardon?

sv	It must be so nice for you, now that you're retired.	sd	I have been a little bit negligent about it because I was so tired when I had to go to work after my husband's death.

sd	And you'll probably really, regain your enthusiasm for it once you get into a class again.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But really, people get upset at taxes because it's more efficient to do things yourself.	b	Right.

qy	Have you, you know, ever thought, you know, just how much of that money should go to other people that really don't deserve it?	ny	well yeah .

sv	Well, the thing of it is, if I wanted to just, you know, permanently become a book reader, I guess I could just, you know, go on public assistance, you know lo , look for, look for people to, take care of me.	sv	Like so many people do.

^g	right?	na^m	Right .

sv	And then you don't have to be on the tax roll.	b	Right.

sd	so I wind up getting money back from my, withholding.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I should calculate it better.	b	Right .

sd	So I'm a federal employee.	b	Right.

qy^g	Guess I don't sound like it	nn	no

sv	I've got all four feet in the trough, you know, being a federal employee.	b	Yeah.

sd	Like every time there is a bond issue you know, I vote no on every one of them.	b	Uh huh.

sv	most of us have all four feet in the trough, you know. Plus our snout, right up to our ears.	b	Yeah.

sv	So, you know, it's not exactly that kind of a place that you want to, you know, get into a tax revolt situation.	b	Right.

sv	in this particular area, you know, I think I pay about, thirty five hundred for taxes on my four bedroom house, you know. And which is a lot of money.	b^r	Right.

sv	and, and so as people get older and older, you know, they think about retirement and that sort of thing	b	Uh huh.

^g	right?	ny	Yeah,

sd	You know. in, instead, it's the taxes here	b	Yeah.

sv	Course I don't know whether I want to go to Bulverde or not, you know or Seguin or someplace like that.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	and I'm saying well, you know, I really can't stay here, as a retiree.	bf	After you retire,

sv	It's too expensive.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm going to have go out you know, in, you know, East Fork someplace. and, do my thing, you know.	b	Right.

sd	And they're not doing it again, you know.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	you must be a T I employee.	br^m	You must be what?

qy^d^r	You must be a T I employee?	nn	No,

qw	who do you work for?	sd	I don't work.

sd	and I have a few ideas of, how to combat it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so That's one thing	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's, that's crime that you can't fight it if you need that money.	b	Right,

qrr	or does it stay in the bad neighborhoods?	sd	the majority of the actual gang crimes, like the drive by shootings and stuff stays in the neighborhoods,

qy^d	So that's a big concern if you live there, is to really lock your car up .	na	very much so,

sd	we were there just, well for a lay over	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we drove into San Juan to catch our plane.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	and they look at you crazy	b	Uh huh.

sd	you don't go on the beach.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's very safe in the daytime	b	Uh huh.

sd	but at night, they even have the policemen come around at dusk and sound their sirens, pretty much telling people, be wary, you know, and get off the beach.	sv	It's just so sad, you know,

sd	Well, what they say they try to do is to get the kids, early and young.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And what we have here in Burlington, which it doesn't cost a lot of money, but they have a kids council that they have all these after school activities for kids.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They have a big brother, big sister program.	b@	Uh huh. Uh huh.

sd	And it seems that the younger you can get them and get them involved with programs after school, you might keep them	b	Uh huh.

sv	so that your mom doesn't have a job	b	Uh huh.

sv	You don't have to live you know, for a street life.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, they can deal with that scale.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They might have five hundred troubled youths.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're selling drugs	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they've got a fifteen year old that's their boss that is carrying a gun.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's not, they don't care about anybody	b	Uh huh.

sv	these people they're stealing from, they're just the big bad rich guy	b	Uh huh.

^q	and we should take it.	b	Uh huh,

b	Yes.	sd	and unless you can take them out of the environment enough to where they don't have the peer pressure from the gangs as soon as they come home from school.

sd	We're talking these kids are fourteen years old.	b	yeah.

sv	The parents might be thirty years old	b	Uh huh.

sv	and the kids are just sitting there in the same room.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's just that they have absolutely no morals	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's really sad.	sd	And I don't know how you combat that.

sd	But I like your idea of education	b	Uh huh ,

sv	I mean if the parents aren't supplying it, they've got to get it from someone else from the schools,	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	the parents might have hostilities towards them, you know, Like you're judging us,	b	Right,

sv	and I'm not good enough to raise my child, which basically is true	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm glad I don't live in a big city I mean, not just because I wouldn't feel safe,	b	Uh huh,

sd	it's just because that I would be reminded every day of something that I don't see,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I might see it on you know, a SIXTY MINUTES special.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I mean, they have all kinds of nice write ups about it	b	Uh huh,

^2	but any big city has a bad section.	sd	it's very prevalent,

 sv	they're very bold it seems.	b	Uh huh,

sv	if I did it every night I think there would be trouble in our house,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so you wouldn't get confronted or anything	b	Right.

sv	but they're not going to grab you, steal your money and slit your throat which in a lot of big cities	b	Uh huh.

sv	People are just totally unfeeling.	b	Uh huh,

qy	Do you have any children?	ny	Yeah,

b^m	Twelve and sixteen.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and, they're five and three and nineteen months.	b	Oh.

sv	So we kind of got different ball game	b	Right .

sv	They're probably at an age where they don't want to spend any time with their parents.	ba	That's true .

b	Right.	sd	I have a kind of a fortunate situation, I think, right now with my sixteen year old.

b	uh huh.	sd	and I work two nights a week at the Senior High School library.

b	Right.	sd	and then they, the school district hires an aide, you know, to work for me.

 b	Sure.	sd	Well, my son is my aide.

ba	well, that's nice.	sd	So, two nights a week for four hours we're stuck together

b^r	You're stuck together.	sd	and there's usually not very much business.

b	No.	sd	I mean, some nights it's just real quiet.

sd	I would suspect your nights would be pretty quiet for the most part.	sd	So I have sort of a captive audience,

b	Right.	sd	But, of course I'm away from my other son those hours, too.

^2	And so that kind of gives him, time with his dad, then.	b	Yeah,

sd	Gives him a little bit of that individual time.	sv	but it is hard, once they get that age,

sv	and they want to be able to spend,	ba	That's right.

sd	and every day that she's not at school, she thinks we need to have someone over and play	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think, I find myself getting my little projects going and not taking the time that I should .	b	Yeah.

sd	the kitchen needs to be cleaned	b	Uh huh.

sd	and and I need to remind myself to slow down	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it'll still be there tomorrow.	b	Right.

sv	But that's kind of hard to do, you know.	b	Yes,

sv	You don't see yourself getting.	sv	Well, if you're kind of a person that likes things, you know, organized or neat

b	Right.	sv	then I think it is hard.

^2	Slow down a little bit.	sd	we often go to Illinois for Christmas,

b	uh huh.	sd	and we're not this year,

qy^d	You can do, more than than when you travel.	ny	Yeah.

sd	but, that's an opportunity to get out the games	b	Yeah,

b^m	of course.	sd	you know, but every now and then, I mean, he's got a lot of those hard kind,

b	yeah.	sd	and, we have the train,

bf	Wouldn't take it apart after that.	aa	yeah,

ba	That'd be kind of fun.	sd	so he worked on that for the longest time, ever since school was out on Friday,

b^m	right.	sd	those kinds of things never happen

sv	In fact in, I think if people would learn to turn off the T V s	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that's a lot of the breakdown of the communication	aa	Yes,

sv	usually people are not sitting in front of that.	b	Uh huh,

bh	and you can't communicate while you're doing that, right?	aa	No .

sd	but be very hard for me to sit down and watch a program all the way through without doing something.	b	Yeah,

^2	Because they talk so much,	sd	they talk about T V shows,

sv(^q)	You're kind of like, what are you talking about	^2	it's the best show on,

sd	and as a matter of fact there are a lot of programs, such as Peace Corps that promote that.	b	Uh huh .

sd	and, in order to get Eagle, you have to have merit badges in, citizenship in the community citizenship in the nation, citizenship in the world	b	Right .

sv	and you have to do a public service project. in which leadership is the key element.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think the question is posed somewhat strangely because, it's talking about a requirement for public service	b	Uh huh .

sd	and, of course, the Peace Corps, the Boy Scouts is a voluntary activity.	b	Right.

sv	of course, military service falls under the category, of a public service.	b	Right,

sv	And, so, one of the things that would fulfill at least the nominal, qualifications set forth in the charge is military service or draft.	b^r	right.

sd	There are other things such as civil service which many people, are lifelong employees of	b	Uh huh.

sv	More of a voluntary kind of thing	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	kind of in lieu of the draft for people who, you know, are conscientious objectors or don't otherwise want e , to be in the military, you know.

qo	Why?	sd	And I went to college for four years and got out, you know,

qo	Why is that?	sv	But, you know, for some people that's good.

sv	It's to defend the nation against external evils.	sv	Well, that's one view .

sv	Well, it depends on whether we figure that we have a defense oriented military or an aggression oriented military.	b	Uh huh.

sv	you know there are so many ramifications to this entire thing of woman, how women have changed,	b	Uh huh.

sd	in England, Margaret Thatcher was prime minister, Indira Ghandi , in India,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think we'll have a black president before we have a women president.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's just a point that I have observed that we,	b	Yeah,

 b	Right.	sd@	a friend of mine traveled to Balise and, into Honduras. * spelling Belize?

b	oh.	fp	Hello.

sd	I think, we're supposed to hang up.	b	Yeah,

b	Yes.	fc	Well, I'll talk to you later,

fc	Bye, bye.	fc	Okay.

sd	and then that's get rid of the half of the government payroll.	sd	I think that would probably, be very possible,

qy^d	you know, I don't know if you've ever been to Washington D C.	ny	Yes,

sv	and in light of these, hearings we've all been sitting through the last two weeks, we have very definitely decided that every department there is just overstaffed.	b	Right.

sv	They really don't have enough to keep them busy to keep their noses in their own business of what they're doing.	b	Right.

sv	I have a real problem with all the foreign aid that is going to the countries that really have no use for us.	b	Right.

sv	but I believe in taking an active part in politics,	b	Yeah.

 b	Uh huh.	sv	and then the, corporate, you know, industries just don't seem to not pay proportionally.

b	Right.	sv	I think that that would help a lot.

 b	Uh huh.	 sv	And, seems like some rather large chunks of money could come from that direction.

sv	The biggest part is they have no accountability for what they're doing.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean this nonsense that's coming through now about, lowering payments on Social Security and a few other things that Bush has in mind in order to boost the economy because people have more money as gets, it's ridiculous.	b	Yeah.

sv	If they don't have that money now, bringing in less is not going to help the problem as far as the government.	b^m	not going to help.

sd	and thank God we don't operate our budget, the way they operate theirs or we'd all be in dire trouble.	ba	Amen .

sv	that's the way they're thinking these days anyway.	 aa	It seems to be.

sd	maybe if they ever get to the point you know, the biggest outlaid expense has always been either wars or defense.	b	Right.

 sv	If they were to take half of what they spend on that and put it on some economic, you know, intergovernmental or inter United States like programs that one really might.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, again I don't think we'll be able to do anything about it,	sv	Well, that's quite possible.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She's a,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

qy^g	She's not the one going to Washington,	nn	No,

b	Oh .	sd	I don't think I could part with her.

sv^t	We've probably been on long enough.	b	Okay.

fc	so it was nice talking to you.	fc	Okay,

fc	Okey doke.	fc	Bye bye .

qo	what do you think about, the idea of having volunteer service for everyone?	sv	I think that, really it wouldn't hurt most of the young people of the country to have to go and do voluntary service.

qy	Well, are you doing any kind of volunteer work now?	ng	Not right now,

qy	What about, when would people do it, when they finished high school?	sv	I think probably as soon as they finished high school it would be ideal, because a lot of times, if they go straight into college I think they're going in too quick

sv	and I think it gives a different perspective.	b	Right,

qw	The only complication is, is how do you fund something like this?	sd	Well, a lot of parents fund their children.

sd	I think the Mormon church sends out missionaries that,	b	Right.

qy	do you think that would be reasonable?	na	I think it would.

qw	What would you have these people do if they were brought in?	qy	What, into the service?

sd	say that, say that it was mandatory.	 sv	Well I, I, I think that they ought to have something for the unemployed in a voluntary field like the,

sd	my father was in the C C C .	bh	He was in that?

sd	Well, it seems that there's some things like the programs at least just go around and, and clean up streets and, and pick up trash and even aluminum cans and some of these kinds of things.	sd	or go into the more depressed areas and help repair the houses.

sd	, and a lot of the buildings in downtown areas that either need demolishing, or need fixing up,	b	Uh huh.

fc	Well, it was good talking to you, Betty.	fc	okay,

fc	Have a good night.	fc	Bye.

b	Right.	sd	Well, actually I'm a Dodgers fan from way back.

qw	how way back, I mean	sd	Like, late fifties, early sixties.

sd	so Wally Moon moon shots and all that.	br	What's that?

sd	coliseum, Wally Moon and all that.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, Wally Moon is the manager of them.	bh	Is that right?

sd^e	so he's still kicking around.	ba	That's interesting.

qy	Is that the stadium?	no	I couldn't tell you for sure.

sd	So, there used to be a, race track.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that was impression I got when I was there	b	Yeah,

sd	It's cheaper for one thing .	ba	Well, that's true.

sd	I don't understand why Encovilla got released.	aa	I don't either.

bh	Why get rid of him now?	sd	I mean, he really has become a very decent fielder.

b	Okay.	sd	He's not the liability that he used to be.

sd	he fits right in I mean with Detroit, bunch of guys that hit home runs and strike out a lot.	b	Yeah,

sd	I mean, if I were in Detroit, I would start building the team around Fielder.	b	yeah.

sd	But that doesn't mean get three other guys who hit, all they can do is hit home runs and strike out you know, which they did.	b	Right.

sd	I think the pitching's deep enough that it doesn't matter.	b	It may be.

sd	I'm a Giants fan from way back.	b	Right,

sd	and Bobby Ojeda didn't hurt	br	who's the last one.

sd	They got him from the Mets for Hubie Brooks.	bk	okay.

sd	he's a pretty decent pitcher.	aa	Yes he is.

b	Okay,	b	Yes.

sd	And, that guy , the short stop, is going to be good.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I should have been to two	qy	Are you an Orioles fan?

sd	and you know, I do enjoy them.	b	Yeah.

sd	I've had an opening day on Monday.	b	Yeah,

qw	How far is Houston?	sd	three hundred miles.

sd	keep forgetting how big states are out there sometimes.	b	Yeah,

sd	you know, we're pretty lucky because if I want to see a National League team, I can usually go up to Philadelphia.	ba	There you go.

sd	And, saw the Cardinals and Cubs last year, and a bunch of teams the year before.	qy^g	Boy, you are a baseball fan, aren't you.

b	Okay,	ba	Interesting.

sd	I mean, I've been to like thirty or forty games each of the last few years.	ba	Wow.

sd	so it's like so much for going to lots of baseball games.	ba	All right.

ba	seriously.	b	Sure.

fc	and you'll be happy I think in October when the Dodgers win.	fc	I wouldn't mind it.

fc	I'll be upset probably even though my prediction will be right .	fc	Yeah,

fc	Take care.	fc	Bye bye.

ad	Think about, taxes.	sv	Well, I think they're a necessary evil.

sd^t	so, I guess the question was more like, do you you know, get what you pay for.	sd	it just depends.

b	Yeah.	sv	So , I think for, for many years, we've paid teachers and police officers and firemen who are, to a great extent, public servants we have not paid them really what they're worth in what they contribute to society.

ba	I agree with that.	sv	But, then again, it's hard to justify with all the wastefulness of money that the government spends on all levels of, government, including municipalities as well as state and federal governments.

sd	I will this year anyway from a,	ba	you're very fortunate.

sd	I need it, too,	sd	We just try not to pay any more in than we have to,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We don't regret paying taxes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And progressive tax, I think, does not give people incentive to make more money,

^2	More taxes you pay.	sv	It should be, I think, a flat percentage

b	Uh huh.	sd	last year when they passed the tax laws for the, nineteen ninety, ninety one, whatever, nineteen ninety one I added up all the taxes that we were going to pay on all these different specific luxury items and travel expenses and everything else,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I totaled them all up

ba	Wow.	sv	Now, that was the assumption that you spent that same dollar for every item on there even though there's, taxes on different things.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, you know, there's a lot of taxes you pay that you're not even aware of that you're paying,

sv	there's a yeah, lot of hidden taxes.	sd	You pay gasoline taxes every time you pump something into your tank.

sv	the, the income tax is a lot more visible portion of the taxes you pay, I guess.	sv	But you probably pay more percentage wise in other taxes.

sd	one of the democratic candidates had a proposal for doing away with all the tax codes they have now and implementing I think a flat percentage, something like that.	b	Yeah ,

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	And, so, if they penalize businesses, business people are smart enough to say, here's my break point, I'm not going to work any harder and make any more or create any more jobs.

ba	Exactly.	sd	Based on that, who do you think you're talking to,

sd	usually the reason I will turn it on is to hear the news.	b^m	The news,

sd	But I don't think of that every day, even.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I teach a college class	b	uh huh.

sd	And so I often drop in on a break and and read it.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I keep the radio on quite a bit when I'm home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then I figure if there's big news, I'll hear it from my husband when he gets home or, someone else, you know.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I read a lot,

qy	do you get a news magazine	ng	well, I'm not getting an ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, you know, as I said, I do,

qy	Are you satisfied with the quality of coverage?	no	I don't know .

sv	it's kind of hard to know.	sd	And I don't know, you know, what's, I mean, what are we supposed to, compare it to you know, I mean, the quality,

b	Uh huh.	sv	whatever they tell you,

sd	I've heard through the grapevine sometimes that there's been an earthquake or sliding or something,	bh	really?

sd	I don't ever hear it in the news here.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	sd	But most of the times I find that even if you know, they do have like tremors out there, you know, there'll be a small article in the paper about it.

sv	I sometimes feel like, the Dallas paper and the DALLAS NEWS, the top headlines are always a murder, you know.	sv	well. That's what sells papers.

 b	Yeah.	 sv	that's been like that since the first newspaper, you know .

 ba	I'm sure.	h	You know, but, I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	bh	I mean, what basis, you know, of comparison do we have really?

sd	you know, I mean, there's even the C N N channel where we can get world news twenty four hours a day.	b	yeah,

b	Yeah .	sv	It's all so negative, you know.

sv^t	I guess we can end.	b	Oh.

sv^t	it's just whenever we're,	bh	is it really?

qy^t	Have you always gone until the recording?	ny	Well, yeah,

sv^t	I guess we're not supposed to .	h	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	was it last week, we were supposed to talk about gardening

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	and it was really funny,

b	really.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	and then we just talked about, you know, whatever, I mean.

b	Yeah.	sv^t	there really isn't much to say after you know, you know, you, you tell the person you know, where their, where they find their sources of information from

b	Yeah.	sv^t	and then, you know, if they're satisfied,

b	Uh huh.	sv^t	It's hard to talk for five minutes on this .

qw	so what kind of car are you thinking about getting?	sd	Well, none at the moment .

sd	Well, when you decide to.	o	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I would imagine that if I change or if I get a new car, I will go with the Taurus or something similar, in that regard.

qy	So you like the Ford?	na	Absolutely.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's everything it's supposed to be.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, the only thing I have against it in that's it's a Taurus,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so it's a little bit larger.

b	Right.	sd	But that's the only difference that I see, really.

sd	the car I had before this one was a Thunderbird as a matter of fact,	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I bought myself a, a Nissan a two forty S X.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But even though I love the car I've got now, I think my next car will probably be American again because if I can at all do it, I'd like to stay American,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just for one time decided to go outside.	sd	Well, my wife still has a Honda Accord,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's an excellent automobile. but, you know, price and so forth,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm not a real car fan.

b	Right.	sd	I want something that's serviceable, something that I can use

b	Uh huh.	sd	and with the Taurus,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And as I said, as far I'm concerned, it has been extremely, serviceable and everything I wanted.

sv	Well, Ford's done a real good job in the last, say, ten years or at least the last five to six years, of really turning around their, quality, I think,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've driven, you know, Chevrolet automobiles and Dodge,

sv	those were not good cars.	sd	And, I was ready to get rid of it two months after I bought it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I shopped around,

b	Right.	sd	I have a friend who, has an auto shop,

b	Uh huh.	 sd	And it was upon his recommendation and so forth for, you know, comparably equipped, you know, with cruise control and air conditioning and A M F M radio, and all these other things

b	Uh huh.	sd	there was no comparison.

b	Right.	sd	that's about the only thing I find, you know, disadvantageous to it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But those are my criteria,

sd	But, I don't have any plans for probably another two, three years of even looking, you know.	b	Uh huh.

 sv	cars are too expensive right now to, to even think about buying new cars every couple of years, you know	 %	I,

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	I can't remember what the name is.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but to pay that much money for an automobile, is just,

sd	that's how expensive they were.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and even though I, I do enjoy cars, I enjoy, driving them, I enjoy, riding in them and everything, but, I can't see or paying more for a car than I would for a house, you know.	ba	That's true. Well,

sv	That doesn't seem likely.	sd	The difference there too, is between us is that I am not really crazy about driving.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	I never have been, since, you know, my parents had to force me to get my driver's license when I was young when I was sixteen.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I've never really cared.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it was always someone else's.

na	I think so.	sd^t	we don't, we won't get the recorder or the, system to shut us off, tonight.

sd^t	That's happened to me once,	sd^t	Well, it's very easy when you get on a topic that, you know, you enjoy.

sd^t	like, I think the one time I did it was on the Mid, the Mid East, the crisis out there.	 b	yeah.

sd^t	but, then they came off and told us we couldn't do it any more.	sd^t	Well I was talking to a lady last evening,

b	Yeah.	 b	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Good bye.

sd	Someplace that's very different than Texas.	b	Right.

 sd	maybe as the summer heat comes along I would sort of like going somewhere where it's not so hot. And being able to be outside, enjoy outside activities,	b	Yeah.

sd	A pool is great.	qw	where do you usually go?

sd	we have plans this year to drive up to the, to Colorado.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, we will be going to Estes Park, and Colorado Springs,	b	Uh huh.

sd	One year we went to the southwest corner of Colorado, into Durango and north of the area there.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	there's a nice train ride that goes up to the city of Silverton where they used to do a lot of silver mining.	b	Right.

sd	I, and then there's lots and lots of mountains that are covered with, boulders.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I sure would like to go back there and do that again.	b	Right.

sd	but I have heard it's wonderful.	sd	it's gorgeous.

b	Right.	 sd	so they are very large condos.

sd	and the, beach is nice,	sd	go down.

qy^g	the beach is really nice, isn't it.	ny	Yes,

^2	Sea shells.	sd	enough to make it.

sd	Sea shells.	sd	there's not as many sea shells along there,

b	Yeah.	sd	if you go further down, you will usually find some, but not right in there.

sd	we just have not gone that direction yet.	sd	It's a place called Jetty East, J E T T Y E A S T,

b	Okay.	sd	and, it's at the very end,

b	Right.	sd	and, I think it's going to cost us, per couple, about three hundred dollars for the week.

ba	That's nice.	aa	Yeah,

ba	Great.	 +	kitchen and everything.

ba	nice.	sd	We have got a beautiful view and balcony,

b	Oh.	sd	But, it's a pretty nice place,

sd	Well, we have just we have just,	sd	It's a little far from here,

qy	Are you driving?	ny	Yeah,

sd	well, starting at the end of July, we will have two vacation weeks in October and two vacation weeks in March.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	So that will be an interesting turn on vacations for our family.	qw	what does that mean, alternate?

sd	what it truly is supposed to mean is nine weeks of school, three weeks of vacation, nine weeks of school, three weeks of vacation.	b	Oh.

sd	and they hope to boost the learning of the children. Just the retention of the material for them.	bk	I see.

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah.

sd	anyway, so maybe within a year, we will see how that falls .	b	Right.

sd	we will head for Florida, maybe in somewhat of an off season, instead of summer.	 b	Right.

ad^t	Well, that's probably all we need to do today.	aa	Okay.

fc	Alright.	fc	So long.

fc	Thanks a lot.	fc	Bye bye.

qw	so what kind of movies have you seen, lately, I guess?	sd	well, the last movie I saw, but it wasn't my choice, was the NINJA TURTLE movie .

qy^d	Obviously you have kids.	na	That's right.

sd	I haven't seen that one yet.	sv	That's an excellent movie.

sd	the last movie I saw was, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY.	sv	was that good.

sd	see, I'm not a big Julie Roberts fan.	b	okay.

sd	But I was a lot more impressed with her than I thought I would be.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	It turned out to be a better thriller than I was expecting it to be.	b	Yeah.

sv	it was a pretty good movie.	sd	SILENCE OF THE LAMBS kept me on the edge of my seat.

 sd	it's, you know, hasn't worked out that way yet.	b	Right.

sd	You know, it looks good, you know if you like thrillers, anyway.	aa	Yeah,

sd	In fact, people I've talked to said that they hadn't slept real good for a while afterwards.	b	Really.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, I like all ranges of movies,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I really enjoy,

qw	Well, what other movies have you seen then lately?	b	Oh.

sd	I assume you were talking about the new NINJA TURTLES.	b	Yes,

sd	I mean, I'm sure I'm going to be seeing it because in a week to Amarillo where my sister lives, and she's got two boys that I took to see the first one.	b	Oh .

sd	So I'm sure I'm going to see the next one here real soon.	b^m	Amarillo.

ba	well, then it won't be too bad.	b	So, yeah.

sv	but it was better than it could have been.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	qh	You know what I mean.

sv	I think that's important if you know, if you're going, kids are going to, parents are going to have to go you ought to make it at least semi , you know, semi for them too.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's pretty good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, if and when we ever get a baby sitter, like we did with SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, we go see it.

sd	I's about to say, you're not going to take her to that one, I'm sure.	aa	no,

qy	or do you go to a lot of comedy movies	ny	Yeah,

qw	What was the last comedy you saw?	t1	gosh what was the last comedy we saw?

sd	in fact I guess this was the last movie I saw	b	Uh huh.

sd	the last movie I saw was THE HARD WAY with Michael J. Fox.	ba	But that sounds good.

sd	you know, he's this actor, right	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he's playing a cop.	b	Right.

sd	I think he did an excellent job in not being too much of a cop.	b	okay.

sd	And I was so impressed with that because, you know, usually,	 ba	That's neat.

sd	because, I mean, everybody grows up looking at these cop movies and trying you know, to imitate them or whatever.	b	Right.

sd	And, I thought he did such an excellent job of not going that far.	b	Yeah,

sd	Now, by the end he was looking more like a cop. But at the beginning of the movie and all through the middle part, you know, he was trying to get it,	b	Right.

sd	but he wasn't there yet.	b	Right.

sv	I think they did a real good job of that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And James Woods, I think is who it was, did an excellent job as the cop.	 b	Yeah,

 +	with him in there.	sd	Probably the last comedy we saw, now that I think about it, is HOME ALONE.

sd	So, I, I've seen it the second time not too long ago.	sv	It was really cute.

sd	I thought that would be one of those that I would love to watch over and over.	b	Yeah.

sd	maybe it's just the idea of my reaction to the first time. I had laughed so hard I was hoarse.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I was hoarse getting out of there.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, it just wasn't as funny the second time because I had just gone overboard the first time.	b	Right.

h	I don't know	b	Maybe so,

sd	I loved the movie.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I love those movies.	sd	I do too.

aa	yeah.	sv	you have to see those twice to catch everything.

ar	Well, you have to see them more than that.	b	Yeah,

sd	I, I still catch things in AIRPLANE that I didn't catch.	b	Yeah.

sd	I love those movies	sd	I do too.

sd	I really do.	sd	So I'm looking forward to seeing that because that looks hilarious, as they all do.

b	yeah.	sd	Well, , we try to go a couple times a month, I guess to see a movie.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's just getting so expensive.

sd	You know, but that's at least the good thing about the Texas organization letting you buy the tickets cheaper.	 sd	But normally we don't think about it until,

sd(^q)	and then all of a sudden I'm saying I wish I'd bought these things.	sd	I know, because we can go spend fifteen dollars just getting in the three of us.

sd	And then if you want popcorn and stuff just, I mean, it's incredible. No,	b	Yeah.

ba	nowhere near that expensive.	sd	So they get you at the ticket booth and then try and get you at the popcorn and coke.

sv	I mean, it's as simple as that.	b	Yeah.

sv	and as long as we keep paying the money for it, they are going to keep paying them.	ba	I guess so.

sv	that was an excellent movie.	sd	I haven't seen,

ad	don't.	b^m	No,

sv	That needs the big screen.	b	Oh.

sv	It really and truly does, because to get the feeling of like when they're chasing the buffalos and everything	b	Uh huh.

 +	you've got to be where you feel it.	bh	really?

sv	You really truly do.	b	Oh.

sv	I mean, that was one movie I came out impressed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	None at all.	b	Right.

sd	Normally I'm one of these people that I don't like one movie taking all the honors.	b	yeah,

sd	I wanted him to win best actor on top of it,	b	Yeah,

sd	Like I said, I wouldn't given the supporting actresses either one.	b	Yeah.

sd	It was just too perfect at all times.	b	Yeah.

sv	They shouldn't have done it.	b	Yeah.

sd	so you know, I can see that.	b	Yeah.

ng	well there is one spot that was just a little bit on the gory side.	bk	okay.

sd	it's just the idea that there is this one spot where the white man has come by and killed a bunch a buffalo and just stripped the hides.	sd	See, that is honest to God the one reason I don't want to see the movie is because I love buffalos for some weird reason,

b	Yeah,	sd	and I know they're fake.

sd	they really don't.	b	Okay,

sv	if she enjoys movies I think it'll work pretty good.	ba	that'll be good.

sd	it's, it's a long movie.	b	Yeah,

b	yeah.	sd	They did a lot of stuff that they cut out.

sd	I may have to see the video.	b	Yeah,

sd	I hadn't even thought of that.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so they're going to put it in the video.

b	Yeah.	sd	And that way you can watch it at your leisure.

sv	there are certain things you can't do with a video	b	Yeah.

sv	and the idea that they may put a little extra in it I think is a good idea.	b	Yeah,

sd	videos, of course, are not cheap either	ba	True.

sd	and so the idea of getting a little extra with it I think is a good idea. Because they make bundles of money off those things.	ba	I know it .

^2	but not enough.	b	Yeah,

sv^t	So, well, this is an appropriate topic the day after Earth Day,	b	Right.

qw	well, what do you think is, the main pollutants in the air?	sd	I have trouble with the chemical plants and things like that I think they put off so much

sd	but the day before they had a lot of programs about the environment and, you know, how we're affecting the Earth and things by what we do, as the people	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they mentioned sulfur and carbon dioxide a lot,	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's incredible that you know, they don't, they're not made to regulate the amount of pollutants that they put into the air.	b	Right.

sd	you know, they're supposed to be regulated because we have a plant, I don't know about T I but we have a Pillsbury plant, in a town adjacent to ours,	b	Uh huh.

sd	of course, you wouldn't think Pillsbury would put out certain chemicals,	aa	No.

sd	but they put out toxic chemicals there just in some of what they do, to, make their dough and to, clean out the flour and stuff like that,	bh	Really?

 sd	and they clean up their act, but on a normal basis that they're dumping things,	 b	Oh.

 sd	and I'm like, if they're getting away with it, can you imagine,	b	Right.

sd	I can't imagine plants,	sd	I wouldn't have thought that Pillsbury would, the, I mean, or even had chem , you know, well,

sd	they have chemicals that they use to refine their flours with and stuff, you know to break the flours down	b	Yeah.

sv	but toxic can be anything that's classified that can damage the Earth.	b	Right,

sv	So, there could be a lot of things that they could put, you know, that chemical wise that they use to, that they are testing with, that they're dumping.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	 +	In packaging

sd	I don't think they do the packaging at this plant,	b	Yeah.

sd	and they do, do a lot of the refining up there	b	Yeah.

sd	what's it called when you do flour,	sd	only thing I can think is bleaching

b	Yeah.	sd	But, we're on the southwest side of Houston

b	Uh huh.	sd	We've got Imperial sugar

sv	but I would think it would be easier to detect those things because you could detect them down or stream or such,	b	Yeah.

sd	or you can, you know, do, testing on the ground itself at that point,	b	Uh huh.

sd	unless it just hangs there like in places where it's a lot of pollution, you know, like in Los Angeles or the bigger cities where it tends to get stuck there,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, that you have a lot more particles in the air,	b	Right,

 +	you know, per, per particles in the surrounding community because it's not moved away,	 b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I think, well, what if somebody's dumped something back there in the, and no one knows about it and, you know, it sinked in through the ground and all that,

sd	it's where Stillwater is or, sweet,	b	Yeah.

sd	it's called Dublin,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Stephenville.	b	okay,

sd	where Stephenville's at, they've had a lot of problems because they've, introduced a lot of dairies there,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's not like it was a big ranch where they let the cow roam around free,	b	Right,

sd	and I read in this article, I couldn't believe it, where, you know, like, one cow like, a day, produces like a hundred or so pounds of manure.	b	Oh.

sd	and they've added humus and stuff that, breaks it down,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, they're water, they're natural water,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's like a spring water,	b	Yeah.

sd	it's not very far down,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and all this stuff is seeping through to the water,	b	Oh.

sd	and like, they're afraid that, you know, within a certain amount of years, they're water in that town will be totally polluted,	ba	It will.

sd	and they won't be able to have any drinking water because they will have, completely polluted, so that you know, there's too many toxins and bacterial growth,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and I'm like my God, you know, you know, just from them introducing dairy farms, in that one county.	b	Right.

sd	and they were talking like, thousands of cows, you know, they were talking thousands cows in one little tiny area.	sd	These are well fed .

sd	But, I mean, evidently a normal cow produces that much too,	 b	Uh huh.

sd	but they're just so spread out on ranches and stuff that it's not, you know, a problem,	b	Right.

sd	and they said that what they were doing was scraping it with bulldozers and stuff, and taking it to, these like ponds that they had to filter it with,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the ponds because they've had so much rain in the past few years, they just, overflow	b	Yeah.

sd	it said the creeks will foam.	b	Oh.

sd	people stand outside their houses and watch the creeks foam brown and all,	ba	now that's bad.

sd	and the smell is really bad they sa ,	sd	, I was going to say, the air pollution alone there just from a hundred pounds of cow manure was going to be bad.

sd	and, channel thirteen they're really, emphasizing the problem with acid rain, you know,	b	Uh huh.

 sv	if we keep putting that stuff into the air and, you know, if we keep creating the problem and not doing anything about it it's really going to be a problem for, the Earth, you know, what the Earth is receiving back, you know, because how can you tell where it's going to come down at.	b	Yeah.

^2	The rain forest and all.	aa	yes,

b	Yeah.	sd	and trees help so that,

sd	Well, they do because, what is it, carbon dioxide, they use that where we can't synthesize it	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're synthesizing it for us.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	b	So, yeah,

sv	I suppose, you know, if you just make sure your car is, is working properly	b	Uh huh.

sv	seems like they've only just really started as far as the environment saying, okay, we're really going to get involved	b	Uh huh.

sd	what kind of results are we going to have for the environment.	b	Right.

 sd	Both.	b^m	Both,

ny	Yes.	qy	Are you at work right now?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	So am I.

qr	Well, are you Summit or are you, Spring Creek?	sd	I'm, I'm Spring Creek.

qw	What building are you in?	sd	I'm building, one.

sd^t	I've never had a call,	aa	Not like that.

sd^t	I got a woman in New Jersey the last time I called, I think.	b	Right.

aa	That is funny.	qo	So how's the weather in building two?

qy	Are you a native to Texas?	nn	No,

qw	From?	sd	From California.

qw	So what do you think of the Texas weather?	sd	Not as nice as California .

qw	How long have you been here?	sd	five years now.

bk	okay.	sd	I've been here long pretty long.

qy^d	you, you know about August then.	ny	Yes,

sv	there's no surprises left.	b	Right,

ba	Real good idea.	b	Yeah,

sd	We went to Alaska.	sd	Well, that's even farther away.

sd	It is so cool, you wear a jacket, you know.	bf	Even in the Summer time,

sd	or keep one handy. Because it rains a lot in Alaska.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and then it rains just enough to keep everything nice and moist and very green. And blooming.	^2	Green.

fe	my goodness, it's pretty.	b	Right.

sv	Well, Texas isn't bad.	aa	No,

sv	Not in the Spring.	 b	Right.

 sv	Spring is nice.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sd	March we typically get a lot of rain,

sd	we always we always do though.	sd	it's hard to remember twelve months ago what it was like.

b	Right.	sv	Well, it's just that, you know,

b	really.	b	Yeah,

sv	you got into that bad stuff.	aa	Yeah.

ba	Isn't that strange.	sd	you pick them up, you know,

sv	and you very seldom see it though.	b	Right,

qy	Is that correct?	no	I don't know how hail is formed to tell you the truth.

sv	I think that's,	sv	You don't think it's cold enough, you know to,

sd	but in the clouds it is.	b	Right,

sd	I was in, Florida for a week on business.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	I said, Okay, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	Finally I got home and found out my property was okay.	b	Yeah.

sv	But I guess you just tend to think of where your house is you know, and nothing else.	 b	Right.

b	I see.	sd	The creek overflows

b	okay.	sd	the streets and stuff around that area, get a lot of flooding.

sd	that house, that I bought is close to a Firewheel golf course.	b	Okay.

sd	Just going to be blocks off of that new highway one ninety that's going through.	b	Right.

b	really.	b	Yeah,

qy	Is that a nice area?	ny	Yeah

ny^r	yes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Really, really nice home, very pretty.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I'm going to lease it.	bk	I see.

sd	it's investment property.	 b	I see.

sd	and, you know, I've got everything just exactly like I want it.	b	Right.

sd	It's a nice house.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I'm going to have to get a map to figure out exactly where is the golf course versus where my house is.	b	Is that right.

sd	But it's in the estates that adjoin it.	b	Yeah,

sd	it is.	sd	That really is a nice area.

sd	that one nine that one ninety is just going to be the the outer , outermost loop around.	b	Right,

sd	just continue to do that.	b	Right,

qw	Where are you from in California?	sd	Southern California.

qy^d	San Diego?	na	I've lived in San Diego for six years when I was younger, and L A area,

sd	I've been through all of that.	b	Yeah.

sd	they're more like just huge boulders with very little vegetation.	b	Huh.

sd	I had to go up to T I on business a couple years ago	^2	Out there,

co	Let me just quick .	b	Yeah,

aa	Yes	b	Okay,

sd	beyond Thousand Oaks.	sd	I know where Valley is,

qy^d	You don't think that's strange looking.	ng	I didn't notice anything strange, I guess about it.

sd	maybe I'm used to Texas.	sd	Maybe Texas the way,

sd	The elevation is extremely high.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sd	And they've built some new highways out to that area, and things, lately.

sd	It was interesting. Because we went out the Ventura highway to Thousand Oaks and on up through that way.	b	Yeah,

sd	it's green sometime.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, it doesn't stay green, you know	b	Right.

sd	We haven't had a really bad one,	b	Yeah

qy^d	I, I, assume you have kids .	na	we have one.

sd	well she doesn't have to worry about public schools yet.	b	Right.

sd	I was a substitute teacher for about a year.	b	really.

sd	but before I went through all of that I wanted to see how I was going to like it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I went out and played substitute for a while and decided, nope, not for me.	qy^d	Did you teach in all subjects or in all grade levels

sd	I just took grades one through six.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I thought I was going to be smart and get the good kids, wrong.	sd	Well, my degree was in fourth through seventh grade

b	Yeah.	sd	but, anyway, at the time that's what I taught.

b	Uh huh .	sd	but it wasn't too bad.

sd	Those little kids don't understand it.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I had decided long before I was even married that I wanted to, if possible, teach my kids at home and not put them in the public schools.

b	Yeah.	sd	and my reason for that was I don't like what's the right word. The varied inappropriate influences that you find so much in the public schools.

ba	Well, that's a nice way of putting it.	sv	You can find a lot of good public schools if you look real hard

^2	And too, most people don't have that option.	b	Yeah.

sd	I've seen some districts where all the schools are lousy it doesn't matter what you do. accept for the private ones, of course, we're talking about public.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	Back when I was going to school you just didn't get away with the things these kids get away with now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean you pulled stunts like that and you were down at the principal's office and, usually bending over to get five of the best,	b	Yeah .

sv	but nowadays they can barely scold the children for something, you know, without getting sued.	sd	And the, the crime is just escalated and the drugs and, even in the, the lower, the lower schools.

sd	And I didn't believe it for a minute.	b	Uh huh .

sd	not a lot I could do about it.	b	Right.

sd	Can't stop the kid from bringing money to school if he wants.	sv	Crazy for him to

sd	well let's just say he was one of those types that you wouldn't doubt that he was selling something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But not a lot I could do about it.	sd	Well, we had the problem when I was in,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you don't know if you were reaching them or not

sd	I mean it, alleviates your problem	b	Yeah.

sd	but it doesn't do anything for them.	b	Right.

sv	it's something.	sv	I think there's a problem too with teachers trying to be so versatile that they do loose sight of the basics, you know,

sv	I mean, i , it's indicative across the board that we've done something wrong.	b	Right.

sv	we can't balance a checkbook without a calculator.	b	Uh huh.

h	I don't know.	sd	Well, I spent a year and a half in Japan also

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then at the end of a certain time period you spitted everything back out

b	Yeah.	sd	So I don't completely agree with that either.

aa	No.	sd	But there, there definitely needs to be a balance somewhere.

sd	that's a great deal what law schools like .	bh	is it?

ny	Yeah.	qy	Is that what you ended up going into?

ny	Yeah.	bk	Oh.

sd	and then you get one examine for the whole semester	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's how well you can remember it all.	sd	how much can you stuff in your brain.

sd	And I found that a particularly useless way of studying.	b	Yeah.

sd	I always tried to understand things, not tried to memorize.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but they couldn't put two and two together as far as the law was concerned.	b	Yeah.

sd	I didn't want to be a lawyer anyway, just wanted the degree.	b	Uh huh.

bh	What can we do about it?	ba	good question .

sv	Money, Money is not the answer.	aa	No.

sv	and things are getting worse.	sv	I think it's like a lot of things in the United States.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and in the power plays that it needs to be pulled down and started over again

b	Uh huh.	sv	Not without wiping out a whole generation of kids in the school system,

b	Yeah.	sd	Maybe on smaller scales.

sv	as much as I didn't like school when I was going through it, from my perspective now I can see that it's a lot better than what we have now.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I think part of it is that they've got to give authority back to the local school.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, I mean, it's silly that these people are handcuffed when it comes to discipline.	 b	Uh huh.

sv	I, I mean teachers are so afraid now of even saying something, to students because they're going to get complaints or they're going to get sued or something.	b	Uh huh.

ba	yeah.	sv	you know, they're kind of fearful of, everything.

sv	Well, lawyers help create that .	sd	well, at least I've heard that

sv	and he's out of our hair.	b	Right.

sv	And the other part of it is parents have quit becoming parents.	b	Uh huh.

sv	you, you can, you can have the best school system in the world if you don't get anything at home then it's not going to help either.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know what the answer is.	b	Uh huh.

qy	do they allow it?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they try to encourage you to follow a specific curriculum, although you don't have to.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then if you have particular religious beliefs they're kind of monitored.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't think they're were in this area

sd	I remembering reading a few cases about when it, when some people first tried that and they got sued. Got taken to court by the school system.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's the way you got your education in this country.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I am pretty much against it .	qy	Really?

qo	How about you?	sd	I'm pretty much for it.

sv	we can have a debate.	sv	We'll have some interesting discussion, I guess.

sd	one of the reasons that I'm against it is that, I'm afraid of someone losing their life, for wrongly,	^2	Wrongfully.

aa	Right	b	Yeah.

sd	and I thought, well, the loss that I would feel at losing my mother someone else would feel that about that person no matter how rotten they were, somebody loves them .	b	Yeah,

qo	How about you?	h	Well, you know, I, I guess I can see it from several different perspectives,

ba	that's true.	sv	But, you know, and, you know, he's never going to be, to me, a functioning part of society.

b	Uh hum.	h	I mean, I don't know,

sd^t	Well you know that's true, because a lot of these conversations I've had on this program this these telephone conversations have revolved around criminal you know justice.	b	really.

sv	and we need to have different punishments you know.	b	Right.

sd	but I just am scared of capital punishment, I guess.	b@	Yeah. Well I can underst

b	Right.	 +@	you know. Right.

sv	If it's no one that I know then you have to think about the taxpayers paying the shelter and feed and clothe them for the rest of their life.	 b	Right.

^2	Letting him out again .	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, everybody would be just as scared to death, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, you know, they're not even having to serve out what they should be serving.

sd	but, I do know that they are notorious for paroling people.	bh	really?

sd	and then having them reconvicted for violent crimes.	b	Uh huh.

sv	because a lot of states do still practice capital punishment	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess violent crimes would be the crimes where I can see it making the most sense.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, violent crimes with just malicious intent.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd@	I really would have a hard time, especially if I was on a jury, not wanting him to, you know, be executed. Yeah.

 ^2	Hang? .	 sv	Because, I mean, that's just awful.

bh	And what is he going to do prison to the other people ?	b	Right.

sd	she was off drugs and everything,	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, people find ways around.	b	Really.

sv	it's not that bad of a life as it should be for the punishment aspect.	b	Yeah.

sv	and maybe that's one of the reasons why crime has gone up, because it's not so scary anymore.	b	Yeah.

^2	And what they're going to be doing when they get out .	b	Right.

b	I see.	sd^t	So, she tried to enter her number

qy	Do you have any pets now?	na	I sure do,

qy	the dog is Joey?	ny	Uh huh,

sd	The cat is,	sd	he's the little boy Pomeranian.

ba	my goodness.	sd	And we just got a new addition to the family, so to speak,

ba	my .	sd	It's a mud dog.

br	I beg your pardon.	sd	It's a mud dog.

qy^d	Well did you all catch it,	ny	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	the mud dog.

qy	did you catch the fish?	ng	we had a friend give it to us.

sd	and it's all alone in that aquarium.	b	Yeah,

sd	Well at the present time I have two dogs.	b	really,

sd	and it has, yellow spots on it which they call, I think, liver spots.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I have a wonderful female lab, black lab.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and, she has hip dysplasia.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it's in that breed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But now I think there are tests that can be conducted, to tell whether or not the puppies have it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	apparently they've been so well I don't know inbred, or what,	bh	is that right?

sd	and if you should have one, that also has hip dysplasia you cannot breed it,	b	Huh,

sd	but she's wonderful.	sd	our dog, Joey, has, a back problem.

qw	what are the what are the symptoms?	sd	he's got a bad back

b	Uh huh.	sd	when you touch him a certain way on the back,

b	Yes.	sd	but otherwise, he can jump, you know, just as long as he doesn't bend a certain way.

sd	let's see, winter before last we would bring her in, when it was cold.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I couldn't get her up without picking her up which it was pretty hard to do at eighty pounds.	ba	I bet.

sd	if I allowed her to not get up on her own, it'd be two o'clock in the afternoon.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm kind of glad to be able to tell people about this, because you all the time, you know, run into people with problems.	b	yeah.

sd	they give it to race horses, to get rid of, cartilage,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I noticed after two shots she was,	qy	Do you have to give those?

sd	but I can't give a shot.	ba	believe me, I understand.

sd	Then I didn't notice any improvement till after the sixth one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he said, a booster, every year or two, I mean, maybe every six months or something like that	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they've really never used it.	b	Uh huh,

sd	like I think German Shepherds do it, and probably large dogs.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it's just wonderful.	qy	Does he get,

sd	I just don't let them, go away from me,	b	yeah,

sd	but we take walks through the woods twice a day.	ba	that's nice.

sd	And, I can over do it on her.	b	yeah.

sd	and she's not limping along and all that.	b	Uh huh.

ad	Tell me about your cat.	sd	Stripper, well he started out being a little orphan,

qr	And is, Stripper an inside cat, or outside?	sd	well he's outside

b	Uh huh.	sd	he's got free access of a window we like to keep open.

b	Yes.	sd	So, he gets to go in and out whenever he wants to.

ba	That's nice,	sd	Joey, on the other hand is a little different.

qy^g	and you've kept it up, haven't you.	na	definitely.

sd	I just wanted to let them be able to be free for a while.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So that made me very proud .	b	yeah .

qy^t	Well, have we been talking five minutes?	no	I'm not for sure.

sd	I'm not either,	sv^t	I think maybe we have,

ny	Yes.	bk	okay,

b	uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sd^t	and, after about twelve minutes or something, the recording came on and said that was the end of the tape .	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	but it's been so much fun too, talk.	qo^t	How did you get into this.

sd^t	Well, my best friend in Virginia's daughter, is a part of this project in Texas.	bk	I see.

sd^t	And so she knew that I had the time and would enjoy it.	b	Uh huh,

qy	do you work.	ny	yes

qy^d	and probably just got home.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	and I understand also they want men.	aa	Right,

sd	my husband does.	b	Does he.

b	Yes.	sd	I've got some applications,

sd^t	but my husband in fact, he's been, probably has made a few more calls than I have because I tend to not make them around dinner time,	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	but nobody's home.	sd^t	Well this is the perfect time for me.

ba	Well good.	sv	Well maybe I'll get you next time.

 fc	it so much fun to talk to you.	fc	All right,

fc	bye.	fc	Bye.

sd	and I have really resisted the impulse to get one for the home. up until, I guess, maybe about a year and a half ago,	b	yeah.

sd	I got one for my son. a Macintosh L C.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he uses it for his school work.	b	Uh huh.

b	Huh.	sd	it's very essential for me.

qw	Where you going to school?	sd	At Georgia Tech.

bk	I see.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	In engineering?	ny	Yes, actually.

bf	So that explains all the, computer assignments.	b	Yeah,

qy	Well, do you use your P C for things other than explicit computer work?	na	sure.

sv	and I really sort of have the feeling that word processing is a big market for home computing.	b	yeah.

sv	even the computer at work is primarily a, word processing system and a communication system.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Emil probably pulls down a third of all my time.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it's I don't know, really become my mainstay I guess.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And I even used that to do my first reports when I was in junior high,

sd	I did my Master's thesis on, a typewriter.	b	yeah.

sd	I rented an I B M Selectric.	b	Oh.

sd	And it was a pretty big deal.	b	Yeah.

sv	well, you know, it's just, it was just a completely different world then.	b	Yeah.

sd	I really don't use it myself.	b	Uh huh.

sd	when I come home from work, I like to stay far away from computers and electronic things .	b	Yeah.

sv	and, of course, you know, there's an intellectual evolution taking place where,	b	Yeah.

sv	and the kids, they just take to it like candy.	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you have any children?	nn	No.

bf	You don't.	qy	Do you?

sd^e	I have, one. A five year old daughter.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I stayed off work with her for little over of a year when she was born.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then I had her at a private sitter for, I guess, two, two and a half years after that.	qh	And how did you choose that sitter?

sd	I couldn't have asked for anything better, I don't think.	b	Yeah.

sd	I didn't want to send her straight to a day care.	b	Right.

sd	And, even though she was that old, I still didn't want her to go to a day care.	b	Yeah.

sd	And this lady, you would think it was her own.	bh	Really?

sd	She's real good.	sv	It's hard to find people like that.

sd	And, now I have got her in a Montessori school.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, actually, I've started working up there in the afternoons, too.	 b	yeah.

sd	she has to stay that much longer,	b	Yeah.

sd	they go year round, teach them.	b	Huh.

sd	Now, in the summer they have like a lot of field trips.	b	Yeah.

sd	but they still go through all their, curriculum as usual.	qw	What kind of questions did you ask about the private sitter before you took her over there?

sd	We kind of give her the third degree .	ba	good ,

sd	So, that way I didn't think, {D y , you know, } the house would be, you know, cleaned or anything for me specifically.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we questioned her about what she fed them and, what she did with them during the day and, you know, just how she treated them, how her daughter was with the children when her daughter got home from school and , stuff like that .	b	Yeah.

sd	And, we really seem to be pleased with her.	qy	did you introduce your daughter to her before you made, your decision?

sd	And she literally spent almost the entire amount that I paid her on my daughter. Either making her clothes or, buying her things.	 bh	Really?

sd	so she had to go, I guess, get a real job .	b	Yeah.

aa	Yeah.	qw	So, what made you decide to put her in a Montessori school?

sd	Well, I checked a lot of places out, you know, the Kinder Cares and the, stuff like that.	b@	Uh huh. Yeah.

sd	and, even though it was older, it was real comfortable and, I guess, kind of homey.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I thought, well, gosh, that must be pretty good, you know, if everybody's trying to incorporate a little bit of it into, into,	b	Yeah.

sd	One place I think I didn't take her.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I just kind of let her go, see what she felt like doing.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I felt more comfortable at, that place.	ba	That's, the true test.

 b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	it's hard to tell how much has been that or how much is just her.	b	Yeah.

sd	and she's already reading and writing and stuff, like that.	ba	That's good.

sd	And she just turned five last month.	ba	that, is good then.

sd	but, .	aa	No,

sd	I wanted, to quit my job so I could stay home with her the next five months, because I know she's going to have to face that .	b	Yeah,

 fe	And, my God. Here we go, you know.	ba	That's right.

qy	Do you have any nieces or nephews then ?	ny	Yeah.

bh@	really? . Oh .	h	And, I don't know,

sv	Just easy to get them, there and stu ,	aa	Yeah.

ba	Well, that's a shame.	b	Yeah.

sv	That's, scary.	sv	It is scary.

sd	I was petrified.	ba	I know.

sd	And that's why I don't mind paying more.	b	Yeah.

sd	I just feel m ,	sd	Too many horror stories out there that, you know.

sd	And that's one reason I like working up there a little bit is, because I know what's really going on.	ba	yeah.

sd	and, it's time to go .	b	Yeah.

sd	but I thought, well, you know, I'd like to see what she's doing, {D you, know } .	b	Yeah.

sd	But now that I'm there, I mean, it's a lot more convenient because there's so many kids that doddle. You know, when their parents come,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and a lot of parents have places to go and and things like that.	ba	That's right.

sd	so, you know, now it doesn't bother me at all	qy	Is that where the,

qy^d	That one that's, set back in the woods?	ny	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I, I've seen the signs

sd^e	That's it.	sd	but I've never actually seen the place itself, {D you, know. }

b	Yeah.	sd	It's set far back, off the road.

sd	and that's something I like, too,	b	Yeah.

sd	because a lot of those places are , like, you know the one over here on seventy eight, Skaggs.	ba	Definitely.

qy^d	That little Kinder Care, whatever it is?	ny	Yeah.

sd	But it's set back, enough to,	b	Right.

sd	or or, if that seems like a real accessible place to where you could,	b	Uh huh.

 +	you know, go, in and get one.	b	Yep.

sd	And, that was one of the places I had checked out.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, of course, it was beautiful and, clean and smelled wonderful in there,	b	Yeah.

sd	I didn't base everything on that.	aa	No,

sv	and it's, over quick.	b	Yep.

sd	I'm scared to death her going to public school.	bh	Really?

sd	I do know why because you know, drugs and, everything else	ba	I would be, too.

sd	and, they talk about how soon they start that	b	Yeah.

sd	and that scares me.	ba	I know.

sv	I mean, you're just with them,	qy	Do they teach them in school right now where she's at about drugs?

sd	they've had police officers come in and talk to them about it.	ba	Good.

sd	But, of course, they still have no concept of, what in the world drugs are, {D you, know }	b	Right.

 qy	Isn't that, sixth, sixth grade, you know,	ny	Yeah.

sd	and that's a big gap.	ba	It is.

sd	And that, I can honestly see the peer pressure there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And that, just, terrifies me to death. And stuff,	aa	I can, see it, too.

sd	and I'm probably a little too over protective	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, Well, nowadays you have to be.	sv	Nothing wrong with that .

sd(^q)	I was going, God, how can you be so protective ? {D You, know }	b	Uh huh .

sd	but, it's easy now .	b	Uh huh.

aa	Definitely.	sd(^q)	That's what I'm thinking what your mom and dad always used to say, when you have kids of your own, you'll understand .

sd	and I do.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Well, are you, are you, are you married ?	ny	Yes.

qy	Are y'all planning on having kids?	na@	Yeah. We'd like to. * should be two slash units

ba	Well, that's good.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't think I agree with,	b	really.

nn	No.	qy^d	You don't believe in it?

sd	but, maybe slowly changing my opinion.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I'm beginning to believe this is less civilized society than I thought .	sd	You sound a lot like a friend of mine. A a girl I hang out with.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She has very black and white opinions, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I still feel very strongly that capital punishment is a good way to punish, especially criminals who seem to have absolutely no remorse for what they've done.

b	Yeah.	sv	And we see that more and more.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, that's fourteen years old.

sv	I certainly don't, advocate turning people like that loose.	b	Yeah.

sv	I'm not sure executing them, does anymore than keeping them in jail,	aa	No

sv	that's a factor.	b	And, yeah,

b	Right.	sd	But even in Georgia that's the attitude for the most part.

b	Yeah.	^q	But when I've got to work to pay my dues and your dues then I don't like you very much anymore.

sv	and they they don't have a crime problem either.	b	really.

sv	I don't really think that there is too much of a relationship between the two.	b	Yeah.

sd	and that bothers me.	ba	You might be right.

b	Huh.	sv	but I do believe it's necessary

b	Yeah.	sd	On the one hand I guess I admire the person who has the guts to do it because I couldn't I couldn't stand behind a gun and shoot somebody for nothing

b	Huh.	sd	and I couldn't pull the switch

sv	I think it just becomes a, symbolic I'm tougher than you are type of emotional issue for politicians	b	Yeah.

sv	I would like for it to be settled once for all and, get in the background while the more important issues get discussed,	b	Right.

sd	Like I said, some years ago, I think I would have said there's no place for capital punishment in the, civilized western country.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I wouldn't vote against somebody just because it was for capital punishment and	 qw	What what's making you become more convinced that it might be a good way of punishing ?

sv	I'm beginning to believe that some people are simply not rehabilitatable and, that, costs and other factors justify, executing people.	 b	Yeah.

sd	and, I can imagine that, for some people it would be the only form of justice in that case.	ba	gosh .

o	Okay.	qw	So, what are your favorite shows?

sd	I like watching COLOMBO and, MATLOCK and QUANTUM LEAP,	bh	really?

ny	yeah.	qy^d	QUANTUM LEAP?

ny	Uh huh.	qy	Did you see it the other night?

ny	uh huh.	sv	that was pretty good.

qo	What about,	qw	What do you,

ny	yeah.	bk	Okay.

sd	well I haven't seen either of those .	qy^d	You've never seen NORTHERN EXPOSURE?

nn	Huh uh.	sv	it's a great show.

sd	but it's on so late here, that I don't always get to see it .	bh	Really?

sd	So I haven't seen any of the movies, yet,	qy^d	you haven't seen any of them.

nn	No.	sv	well, they're good,

sd	I haven't seen really the new generation that much.	bk	okay.

qr	Is there one you prefer better, the older one or the newer one?	sd	Well, they're a lot different.

 b	yeah.	 sd	And I guess the newer ones are real futuristic, too,

sd	I mean, he almost hates the new ones .	bh	Really?

sd	but, I don't .	aa	No.

b	Yeah.	sv	but that's true,

sd	I like to watch COLOMBO because it's like a mystery thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	but COLOMBO is way tricky	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean he doesn't even try to let the person know he's getting onto them.	sd	Well, it seems like they always show COLOMBO, the same ones over and over, though you know what I'm saying, like that one where he goes to college,

qy	Well, did you see the one.	qrr	or is there a series on.

sd	well we see it Thursdays at seven,	b	Okay.

qy	did you hap ,	ny	Yeah,

qy	did you see that?	sd	See, that was a rerun.

bh	Really?	b	Yeah,

sd	I guess I haven't seen it before.	sd	He was a movie director,

b	Yeah	b	Okay.

sd	on the set or something.	sv	That was pretty good though .

sd	I like COLOMBO probably the best of any of those mystery things.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, there's never anything good on Saturdays, though .	ba	No kidding.

sd	but I'm never home	sd	there's something I watch on Saturdays,

b	Oh.	qy^d	You never saw that?

sd	They'll say, so and so from TWIN PEAKS, or something, you know.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	But, it was a different type of show.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I didn't like the way it ended, though.

qy	did they end the whole series?	ny	Yeah.

bk	Oh.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	But it's all over now.

x	,	sd	just a couple.

qw	What do you have ?	sd	I've got an Omega

bh	yeah?	ny	Yeah,

qw	What did you do, put it together?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	That's all I got to say for it.

qw	What do you use it for?	br	Huh?

qw	What do you use it for?	sd	work,

qw	What kind of programs do you,	sd	anything .

sd	I mean like business programs	sd	I've done business programming, you know, scientific applications like, you know, petroleum science stuff and, test equipment

 +	Man.	sd	and I, I did one that was, the demonstration of a touch screen for a company that sells, touch screens.

b	Uh huh,	sd	Put a little bitty portable computer in there and a plasma display. And make it look like things like, you know, attack simulators , and all sorts of little things you'd want to put your finger on the screen for.

sd	Matter of fact, I guess you get a lot of graphics in there, I imagine,	aa	yeah,

sd	That's where the speed helps out.	b	yeah,

sd	that will, slow you up .	br	Huh?

sd	Well, I do, programming for C N C turret presses and cat cam system type things	b	Uh huh.

sd	I got a new line that I sell metal fabricating equipment, and cat cam systems, and tooling, et cetera.	b	Uh huh.

qw	Who is that?	sd	his name is T Q or something like that.

sd	I've tried to do is get this outfit to give me one .	br	Huh?

sd	They not only give me a demonstrator, but the hardware as well as the software.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And as they, And as they go to the next one I just keep the,	ba	that works.

sd	that's why I have so many different levels of P C s around at the moment.	sd	here it is.

qy^d	A T S?	ny	Uh huh.

qw	And where are they at?	qy	do you know where, Custer is?

ny	yeah.	bk	Okay,

qy^d	In Richardson?	ny	Uh huh.

qy^g	that's about Lookout there, I think, isn't it.	na	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	It's a little place, looks like a castle.

b	Yeah.	sd	Kind of, little guy in there.

b	Oh.	sd	Like I traded my, three eighty six for the four eighty six for about six hundred.

ba	Well, that's a good deal.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and he does a good job

qy^d	you ever go by Lucky Computer there?	b	Uh huh,

sd	when I was putting shop floor computers together for guys, I'd go and get their units and put them together and go and interface the stuff with our systems.	b	Uh huh.

 sd	So I don't know where those guys are at these days.	sd	they're up there in that mall. just below Campbell. Or that strip, center.

b	Yeah.	 sd	They're still doing business. Big business, apparently.

sd	I tell you, those prices have just, unbelievably come down.	b	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	ba	That works,

sd	That wasn't alive for but maybe two years.	b	Uh huh.

bh	That's it?	ny	Yeah,

ba	I'll be darned.	b	Yeah.

o	Okay.	o	All right.

sd	and there's a couple of national parks, I guess, that you can camp at.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't know if the camping that I've done is really roughing it without a whole lot of stuff.	b	Yeah.

sd	and there's some real nice ones in Arkansas.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think Arkansas has one of the best parks departments around.	b	Huh.

sd^e	part of them are.	b	Yeah,

sd	there's a golf course and, just a whole bunch of camping sites.	b	Yeah.

qw	where have you,	 sd	I've been camping for years, not on a regular basis

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, then I moved to North Carolina

b	Uh huh.	 sd	And then maybe camp another night and drive home.

sd	The more times we did it, the more serious we get about it.	b	Uh huh.

qw	where is Raleigh, in North Carolina?	sd	well, it's, in terms of north, south I would say it's, a little more towards the northern border of the state and pretty much in the eastern half of it.

qy	Are you kind of away from the Blue Ridge Mountains,	no	Well, it, it's,

b	Uh huh.	sd	the Blue Ridge in North Carolina I think are much nicer

b	Yeah.	sd	The way it works.

sd	but I didn't know how much camping areas there were along there.	sd	I think there's quite a few.

sv	that seems, like a challenge.	sd	It's, it's actually kind of incredible,

 b	Uh huh.	 sd	and, it's just kind of nice.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, it's pretty nice.

b	Yeah.	sd	Of course, they drag a lot of drugs with them

qy^d	Are the temperatures real extreme there	na	They can be,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've been camping in Death Valley,

 ba	true.	sd	But it's beautiful in February.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, it's just beautiful.

sd	I don't know when I'm going to get a chance to do that	b	Yeah.

sd	when you're close to a big city like Dallas, the lights kind of wash, wash off the star	b	yeah.

sd	It's just amazing, how much you miss.	b	Yeah,

sv^t	Well, I guess we've talked as much as we need to on the subject.	 aa	Yeah,

fc	it was good talking to you Robert .	fc	Okay,

qy	Well, do you own a P C?	nn	No,

ba	wow.	sd	And it's just an old compact, that is super slow

qw	What processor does it have in it?	no	I don't know,

qw	what kind of work do you do on it?	sd	I do, television ratings

b	Yeah.	sd	It's basically just data entry and running, you know, some software

sd	but I've, yeah, I work for T I	b	Yeah,

sd	It's an S P one thousand which, it has a fast processor in it, a three eighty six.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I do a lot of training of our customers for new products.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it's, it's kind of fun,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I just haven't got around to doing it yet.	b	yeah,

qw	Your husband, what group is your husband in?	sd	something with the defense.

qy^d	Defense systems and electronics group?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	He works up in Plano.

sd	I work on, printers and, the peripheral products division, basically,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I work in the airline, marketing group.	b	Oh.

b	yeah.	sd	I learned so many things that they do,

b	Yeah.	sd	but then he switched jobs.

qy	Is he a programmer?	ny	Uh huh.

bk	I see.	sd	Software design engineer, as they call it,

b	Right.	sd	it's basically the, more the business end of it than the programming end of it, you know.

b	Right.	sd	but I've been at it for, you know, five years,

qy	Does he bring a little one home with him	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, it quit working

sd	we build, laptop and notebook computers here in Temple also.	b	uh huh.

sd	I mean, they, they have modems in them, you can send a fax from your P C,	ba	how nice,

br	What's that?	sd	He doesn't have one of those.

sd	just, you know,	b	Uh huh.

 +	plug in the phone to your computer and dial in	b	Yeah.

sd	I just found out I'm going to Denver Sunday night again.	ba	boy.

sd	but, it's really not enough to become a big hassle.	b	Uh huh.

b	I see.	b	Yeah,

sd	depends on what you consider expensive,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you can get real high powered stuff now for under two thousand dollars, where, you know, just a few years ago it would have been six, seven, eight, nine thousand dollars.	b	Yeah. {D You know,

sv	you know, two thousand dollars isn't just pocket change to a lot of people .	ba	That's right .

sd	when I started at, T I, I was a Summer development student, and finishing up at school	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, it was nice having access to the, equipment to,	b	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I did a lot of his papers.

qw	Well, how many different types of packages do you use?	qy^d	At home?

b	Uh huh.	sd	the packages I don't really use,

sd	up at work anyway, I use WordPerfect and Lotus and, and which is, a line draw package.	b	Yeah,

sv	You probably use or something like that, for your, data entry stuff that your, talking about.	b	Yeah.

qy	do you work at home all the time	nn	Well, no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they just wanted me to continue working for them at home doing other things,

sv	that was, that worked out pretty good then.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and it's time consuming.

qy^g	So, it keeps you in the company,	na	That's right, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, it's not something that's continual because, you know, the television ratings don't come out, you know, all the time.

sd	I tell you if I could bring a computer home and do stuff here, I'd get all kinds of stuff done.	b	Oh.

sd	Phone's always ringing	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I've got lots of documentation I need to review and some I need to revise.	b	Uh huh,

sd^e	but, you know, I need to be at the office, too.	b	uh huh.

sd	but, a P C at the house would really take a lot of the load off.	b	Yeah.

sd	well, I've done that before on, a couple times.	b	Yeah.

sd	instead of bringing home a computer, you just bring home a few floppy disks, you know.	b	Uh huh,

ba	my.	sd	they just send me everything and pick it up courier or whatever,

ba	Man that sounds really nice.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I, you know, worked,

b	Uh huh.	sd	A lot of them just know me by name and phone voice.

sd	I've got a lot of folks that I've worked with like that as well.	b	Yeah,

fc	well, we'll talk to you later.	fc	Okay, well, thanks,

sd	well, I can tell you pretty much my two favorite shows	b	Okay.

sd	one of them is QUANTUM LEAP	b	Okay.

sd	and, it's adventure and things like that	b	Uh huh.

sd	but that's the way it is,	sv	It's funny that those are my husband's two favorite shows, too,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the only reason I think I like it now is because I've seen it so much

sd	He is .	sd	And I told my husband, that's the whole point,

ba	that's right,	sd	I find him degrading at times.

sd	in fact, there was one show that he even turned down a date with some, you know, beautiful woman just because the idea that his mind was on the ozone layer and, you know, global warming and all this other kind of stuff.	b	Oh.

sd	so that was part of, I guess, his character building or whatever,	sv	I think it probably adds a little bit of depth to his character.

sv	Which of course he needed .	aa	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but he's doing them within the bounds of what a normal person would do

ba	that's a good point,	sv	I like that.

qw	So what do you consider your favorite shows?	sd	I think my favorite show is HUNTER.

b	Okay.	sd	And, I like the old series better when, Dede was in there.

^2	Dede,	aa	Yeah

aa	I agree.	sd	so, and then the blond that they took out, the one that got killed

sd	I can't remember what her name is,	b	yeah,

sd	Well, but, see I read an article in T V GUIDE about, about HUNTER, and about you know, his three girls, whatever you want to call them	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they say that, that there was like a conflict between her and him, that they never really could get her into, any character that they could use.	qy^d	The second lady?

sd^e	the second one the blond	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, if you think about it, they didn't really interact hardly at all	aa	They didn't.

sd	I mean, they were never partners.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I think that's what I didn't like.

sv	but, it seemed like it was almost two different organizations you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, you know, you're wondering, you know, well when did this happen?	b	Right.

sv	I kind of agree with that.	sd	And I like the new lady better,

sv	Well, I'm afraid that's what they really wanted to do,	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and now they're starting to go back to it,

sd	well, see, there was that spark between Dede and Hunter for a while	b	Yeah.

sv	And that really made it a very interesting, show to where you never really knew which one was going to show up. You know, whether it was going to, where they're going to be real close or whether they're just going to be partners, you know	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you always wonder, why they don't, you know, get together or whatever.	b	Yeah.

sv	And so I guess that's what they decide to do	^2	Just go ahead and quit the wondering

sv	But it's always been a formula, for T V that the two main stars get married, that the show ends up, you know, dying.	b	Yeah.

sd	They had GET SMART for, ten hours a day, from seven o'clock at night, until six or until five o'clock the next morning. All the GET SMART episodes you could ever see.	b	Oh.

sd	Well, the last day, all they did was the last season, to where the two of them got married	b	Uh huh.

sd	the series died right after that, because,	sd	I didn't, I was going to say, I didn't ever watch MOONLIGHTING,

ad	well go ahead.	sd	but I heard that's what killed it

sv	same thing.	sv	that, interplay died when they got married,

sv	it seems like you can do so much more of the subtle hints and the subtle little plays on things they, before they get married	 b	Uh huh.

 +	and, well, of course, another one of their mistakes, I think, is they have a tendency to change characters, or to change the characters', personalities	 ^2	Halfway through,

 +	well, especially after they get married.	b	Yeah.

sd	couple of examples would be, well, like I said, this one about or Get Well Smart, the female character, Barbara Feldon	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, in short, whenever they got married, she got dingy.	b	Oh.

bh	You know, why would they do that?	b	Yeah.

sv	It made no sense.	sv	I'm guess it's falling back into our traditional stereotype which a lot of shows

ba	Unfortunately, that's probably true.	b	yeah,

sd	that's on Tuesday nights I think.	sd	I've seen it before,

sd	well, I I hardly ever watch it,	sd	Usually Tuesday nights I'm out,

sd	and then they pulled them apart	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think they're thinking about that exact thing, about the idea that if the show lets them, get together, then you lose part of what the show's all about.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So. I always thought that was kind of weird.	b	Yeah,

b	right.	sv	and I think it's the same with your characters on T V.

qy	Do you think that's why most rock stars nowadays keep their marriages secret, or at least they keep it quiet.	na	Probably,

sd	Now I don't particularly like either one of them	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, their marriage was so highly publicized that there was no way that they could stay together	b	Yeah.

sd	or at least, that's the way I look at it.	b	Uh huh

 h	So I don't know,	sv	it would have been hard,

sd^e	I would think so.	sd	I just, the publicity in and of itself, much less the, I mean,

sv	they wouldn't be easy.	b	Yeah.

ba	So, well that's kind of interesting.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	So, well I guess that's about all we need to do, isn't it.	ny	Yeah,

fc	I really appreciate it.	sd^t	You're the first man I've talked to,

sd^t	you're the second female I've talked to.	sv^t	You've had a little bit of variety,

sd	it's kind of nice .	b	Okay ,

fw	Uh huh.	fc	Bye bye.

fa	sorry.	ba	Wow,

sd	It's got three bedrooms going along one side and the living room and kitchen on the other.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's big.	b	really,

fa	I'm sorry	bd	That's okay,

sd	It's big enough for us, though.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We've got two children.	b	Uh huh,

sd	see, that's north.	qrr	Or down here in Denison,

sd	so it's north to me .	b	Okay,

sd	I'm really from Kentucky.	sd	I was going to say you didn't have the typical,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but you don't have a Texas accent.

b	Right.	sd	Well I'm originally from, Ohio, Cincinnati,

b	okay.	sd	so I'm familiar with,

^2	that dialect.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Anyway, my home I guess it's about twenty five hundred square foot

qw	How many kids do you have?	sd	We have two,

qy	Do you have enough bedroom space, then?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so, we're going to enlarge our master bedroom and take out a couple of walls and enlarge it. And then shuffle the rooms around a little bit.

sd	it's more or less a spare room.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We rarely go in there, except for to play chess.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the living room and kitchen are huge,	b	Right.

sd	Where you've got to leave the furniture just one certain way, you can't rearrange it at all.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	You know we have windows in our bathrooms which really makes it difficult for,

sd	we've got two great big windows in our back bathroom.	b	Uh huh,

sd	No privacy.	aa	No,

sd	Well, we've got at least two windows on every wall in the house.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I really would.	sd	I figured I'm going to have to hire somebody to remove our windows and put new ones in that are easier to clean.

sd	You must live in an older home too then.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it's not a new home,

sd	When we moved in the man that sold it to us had said that he remodeled it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so most of that, by now, is falling apart.	b	Oh.

sd	and I don't like that at all.	ba	that is awful.

sd	With that, the great big square tiles like, that you put on the floor, the huge one.	b	Uh huh,

sd	for that you put,	^2	The normal tiles,

sd	that would be prettier.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It just doesn't look good.	sd	and also they're very heavy

sd	and it's shorting out here and there,	ba	wow,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean we need to redo some, rewiring ourselves

b	Yeah.	sd	and, it can be really bizarre.

b	Yeah.	sd	And we never know where it's going to flood.

sd	We've got our stereo hooked up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's always ran just fine, the clock and stuff.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	But on the east side of the house it runs fine.	ba	boy, you do have a strange wiring problem there.

sd	it's all new wiring up in the attic, or I guess crawl space,	b	Uh huh.

sd	he really should have hired people.	ba	Well that's something,

sv	he'll end up killing himself.	br	Pardon.

sv^r	End up killing theirselves.	ba	That's right.

sd	but that's about as far as he'll go.	sd	Well that's the way mine is, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, he well he said he went up in the attic and looked around

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was a wood shingle roof,

sv	husband probably knows.	aa	He probably knows,

sd	Like I said, he didn't know what he was doing.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Unfortunately when we were doing that it decided it wanted to snow and hail and rain.

ba	no.	sd	and we had, we had almost, I'd say about half of the roof off,

^2	And, a house full of snow.	sd	And a house full of snow, and rain,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it came down,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the wind came in from the north

ba	no.	sd	I had water coming in every light fixture.

b	yeah.	sd	I had water coming in everything that was in the ceiling, everywhere.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I would go in,

sd	my husband was in the Army.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it was coming out of the lights, fixtures.	b	Oh.

 sd	It shorted it out, or something.	ba	yeah,

sd	So she woke up with about six feet of water in her house.	ba	my lord.

sd	not six feet	^2	But it's quite a bit, quite a bit,

qy	so. Did you have carpets and stuff?	no	several of our rooms got ruined,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so it got into the carpeting, got into the floor.

sd	Your house sounds like mine because mine's pier and beam too.	b	really.

ny	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean we'd done everything we could to keep out the weather. You know, and stuff

sv	Well you got to redo it the way you wanted it in the end.	ba	yeah

qy	Are you finished with it now?	qy^d	the roof?

ny	Uh huh.	ny	yeah,

 qw	how long have you lived there?	 sd	see, it's three,

qy	You all did it yourselves?	qy^d	What, the walk?

no	The home improvements.	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean this is what,

qy	do you have .	qy^c	Are you there?

ny	Yeah.	bk	Okay .

o	There, okay.	b	Okay.

qy	do you have children?	ny	Yes,

bk	okay.	qo	How about you?

sd	I have three.	ba	my goodness .

qy	do you work?	ny	Yeah,

 bk	Okay.	sd^r	I do,

b	Oh.	sd	so he's not quite two and a half yet.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I put him,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I put him in a day care center from the very beginning.

ba	no kidding.	h	I don't know,

b	Really.	sd	I have had this real problem with a private individual.

 b	Yeah.	sd	and I always figured at least in a day care center there are other people around,

b	Yeah.	sd	and if you get one bad apple, there's are at least other people that can see it.

b	Yeah.	sd	They can watch,

 %	Because there's,	qy^d	You know, how can you help depending on the day care center, you know,

ny	Yeah.	sv	you got to when you hear about all the horrible things that happen in day care centers,

^2	It's like a family thing.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, that's what I did

ba	good.	sd	I have been just so happy.

sd	but obviously you do or you wouldn't have him there, I know,	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it was wonderful,

ba	gosh.	sd	But, I thought okay, I'm going to keep an open mind here,

b	Right.	 sd	and the people who came in, it just wasn't, it, just wasn't the same

^2	Wasn't the same.	sd	and their, their attitude and philosophy was just completely, opposite from mine,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I left him there for about a month and just decided I can't do this anymore,

b	Yeah.	sd	but. but, he's done well,

b	Yeah.	sd	he's been there, a couple of months now,

ba	Good.	sd	and I just feel so lucky.

ba	good.	b	Yeah.

ba	that's good.	qo	How about you?

sd	My oldest one is ten and a half now, or she's, I guess,	ba	Wonderful.

sd	and I couldn't wait to have them it would be kind of silly, you know, to go back to work as soon as I had them,	b	Right.

sd	By the end of the ten years I was really ready , to go back to work,	b	Yeah.

sd	and my youngest was only, two and a half .	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean she was already two and a half,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so you know, she wasn't an infant.	^2	A baby.

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah .

sd	and I'm working part time .	sd	I know how that goes .

sd	but I only have half time salary,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, when school lets out, I just don't, I haven't, I have no idea what I'm going to do, because I certainly can't afford what we did last year which was,	b	Right,

sd	but it was all, really expensive .	b	Yeah,

sd	if I can work part of the day, you know, I'm going to leave them home.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	b	yeah.

sd	But, the four year old now I have had her since I went back to work, or before I went back to work really, in a home day care situation,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it took us two or three different people to find,	^2	To find the right one,

aa	Yeah.	sd	that's what we have to do though.

sd	But, I wasn't embarrassed to shop around you know,	aa	No.

sd	there's an association here in town of professional home, care providers or something like that.	qw	where do you live?

sd	In Plano.	qy^d	Plano?

sd	care provider.	b^m	Care provider.

sd	She goes to seminars	ba	that's wonderful.

sd	and, so it's just really, really well regulated.	ba	That's great.

sd	After noon classes she's going to be here because she's going to morning kindergarten.	b	Right,

sd	and, we put him in Amrein's Day Care, after. After,	b	Uh huh,

sd	but the thing is he was in school all day, in second grade,	b	Uh huh.

sd	in Plano, it's open classroom situation where they don't have walls,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so there is like a hundred and twenty second graders , in the same area with no walls.	b	Oh.

sd	and then there would be a whole ton of other kids, all in the same room, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	But, it was just like going to school until five thirty at night instead of being able to get home at two thirty.	bf	Poor kid was in school all day.

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	Because he was always around with a crowd of kids he just really missed being able to be by himself, and having some peace and quiet	b	Uh huh.

b	Yes.	sv	we all need that time, just some quiet time to wind down from the day.

sd	but we tried to sign him up for after school scouts and, stuff like that	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and we've already started about,

b	Right .	 sd	you know, we both think of that as just so important,

aa	It is.	 +	to get him involved in stuff like that

aa	It is.	sd	I mean, he's so much fun now,

b	Yeah.	sd	he's really starting to get lots of fun

b	yeah.	sd	you know, and, you know, we did the Easter egg hunts, which was really the first year he was really able to

b	Uh huh.	sd	and to know what he was doing you know, and enjoy it,

b	Yeah.	sd	and it was so much fun

ba	You're kidding.	sd	and Lord, I couldn't believe it.

ba	You're kidding.	 sd	They had so much fun. .

 ba	that's great.	sd	I bought us tickets and stood there in line

b	Yeah.	sd	Day care has just done just incredible stuff with him

ba	That's so good.	sd	and he's excited to get there in the morning, and just doesn't even want to kiss me good bye.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	It's just like bye,

^2	He's out of there.	sd	and he's always having fun when I pick him up

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's Bright Steps in Lewisville.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	whenever you say Bright Steps, everybody goes, I've heard that's the best day care in town, you know,

ba	Good.	sd	and it's one of those that's very hard to get into.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	and this, this, this woman owns three day cares, two in Lewisville and one in Irving.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she had to open the second one up in Lewisville because, her waiting list was just like, you know, like a year old,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it was ridiculous.

ba	my gosh.	sd	And, she's got two day cares within like three blocks of each other.

ba	No kidding.	b	Yes,

sd	She knows something right, that she	sd	She knows what she's doing,

sv	that makes such a difference.	sv	it makes a huge difference.

sd	That's the way it is at my daughter's nursery school too.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I think that really makes a difference.	b	Yeah.

sd	They're in it because it's a profession, not because it's a job they could get because they didn't qualify for anything else, you know .	ba	That's right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the owner, I really liked her

b	Right.	sd	and I got lucky

ba	that's great, you know.	b	Yeah,

 ^2	Sometimes it isn't.	b	Yeah.

qy	Well, is it real expensive then?	no	it just went up the first of this month.

ba	Wow.	sd	It's a little high,

b	Yeah.	sd	but you know, it's like where he was before I was only paying sixty three,

b^r	Right.	sd	but, I looked all over Lewisville,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, and there were places that were cheaper,

aa	No.	sv	you know, your peace of mind is worth a little bit of money, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I have peace of mind, where he is

b	Uh huh.	sd	and some of those other places I wouldn't have.

sd	Galen just doesn't go there three mornings a week.	b	Yeah,

sd	when school holidays come around, I used to have such a problem with that.	b	Uh huh.

ad^t	do you want to go first?	sd^t	Well, I could barely hear what the switchboard operator was saying as what was the topic.

sd^t	Fitness and exercise.	fe	God .

sd	so I had to kind of change my life style a little bit .	co	Well, let me ask a personal question,

sd	Thirty eight.	sv	well then you should

sd	it's just that left knee that just doesn't want to do everything it used to.	sv	you're lucky then

bh	Really?	sd	I mean even since I was like about two or three.

b	Oh.	sd	Then they diagnosed it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I used to do it about six times a week

b	Yeah.	sd	And the shock on the system is just too much,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, you know, it's hard to find.

ba	That's right.	sd	or it's the geriatric crowd.

ba	That's right.	sd	So, I've considered even becoming licensed to teach it.

sv	and you probably do.	aa	Yeah,

ba	This is true.	sd	So, to find an indoor pool where either you can do this by yourself without, you know, drawing a lot of looks, means you're really going to do a strenuous workout activity

qy	Have you tried the pool at the Spring Creek Fitness Center?	nn	No,

ny	Yes.	sd	I have been told that thing is just lovely.

sd	They keep it at eighty one degrees year round.	b	Huh.

sd	I try to beat the traffic in the mornings when I workout in the mornings, I try to come down to the Dallas Fitness Center.	b	Huh.

ad	You need to put that on there, seriously.	sd	I don't work at T I.

bh	you don't?	nn	No,

b	Oh.	sd	as matter of fact I was the only woman that they had in the field in a management position

b	Yeah.	sd	and, me and the insurance adjusters are very familiar with each other

b	Yeah.	sd	and, I get my attitude expressed through them,

ba	This is true.	sd	and never having lived in Texas before I starting working for T I

b	Yeah.	sd	and boy I was pulled in by my manager and told that you just don't say that, you know,

qw	Now what year are we talking about?	sd	We're talking nineteen seventy eight.

sd	things have become much more enlightened since then.	sd	They couldn't have gotten anymore in the dark ages .

sd	but people are more sympathetic to it.	sd	I understand that they're now covering women's preventative health care,

aa^r	Yes.	sd	and, the reason I'm at home is when I had my kids, and I was scheduled to go back I tell you how much in the dark ages it was. I had been rated number one in the field

ba	My gosh.	sd	and they put the baby on a heart lung monitor when I took her home,

ad^c	Could you hold the phone for one second,	aa	Sure.

sd	I'm back.	sd	and then I had a second one eighteen months later,

ba	Wow.	sd	and I don't even know it.

sv	Of course it's real easy to take care of the first one when you're on your back.	aa	yeah,

b	Really.	sd	but after the second baby was born I was going to go back to work,

b	Yeah.	sd	and that was when they had,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I'll tell you how they handled this

b	really.	sd(^q)	And they told me well, you know, you know, your husband works here

b	Yeah.	sd	and I couldn't get my, termination benefits either.

ba	There you go.	sd	I was just pissed as hell that they could do that.

sd	I can believe that.	sd	But I guess things have gotten better,

sv	flex time is great.	sv	I still don't think that, after my experiences that they could, you know, get me to go back, ever again .

fc	Well, it's been good talking with you.	co	But let me ask you this, since you use Texans,

sd	shoot it's only about ten bucks a month.	qy^d	Now that's for individual.

sd	it's no big deal.	qy^d	That's it?

ny	Yeah.	qy	Now if you pay your monthly charge, do you then pay separately for classes your taking?

na	but I mean to use any of the facilities is no extra charge.	ba	God, that's cheap.

sd	it is.	sd	That's really cheap.

^2	or a dependent of one.	sd	God, I am so dependent these days.

b	Really.	sd	seen that my co dependents have turned on the hose and are getting my neighbors fence.

ba	Wonderful.	b	Yeah .

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, that beats any offer I've heard in a long time.

sd	it's great.	b	Huh.

sd	it's not excessively crowded on the weekends.	sd	See I'd want to be there in the mornings like from nine thirty to ten thirty .

sd	If you're in Richardson you'd probably wanted to come to the Dallas site.	sd	I'm actually right on the Plano line.

sd	well, then you could go either one,	b	Yeah.

sd	and you'd probably like the pool there.	ba	God it sounds like I would.

sd	I'm glad.	ad	You can go back to work now.

fc	Well, thank you.	fc	Thank you.

fc	You have a good day.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	well we just finished watching, TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES on tape, you know .	qy	Did you watch DANCES WITH WOLVES,

ny^r	yeah.	qy	Did you like it?

qy	have you seen it?	sv	I thought it was very well done.

b	Yeah,	qo	How about GHOST?

sv	but, you know, I didn't think it was as good as all the, hype was about it.	b	Right,

sv	I couldn't see it worth getting a nomination for, best picture.	aa	No,

ny^r	yeah,	qy	you watch many?

no	you know, it depends on wh ,	qy^d	Do you like the classics like, GONE WITH THE WIND and, you know the older movies.

sd	Because I've never seen CITIZEN KANE,	b	Yeah,

sd	and I've never seen CASABLANCA and never seen GONE WITH THE WIND.	sd	I think I've seen most of Humphrey Bogart's movies, but, in, you know a long time ago,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, like the MALTESE FALCON and all those,

sd	we saw part of THE AFRICAN QUEEN on T V a couple of years ago,	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)	and we're like well why don't we go see this now ,	b	Yeah,

sd	one of the movies we saw recently, we saw, MISERY.	sd	I didn't see that one.

sv	That was good,	b	Really.

sd	and there's one really bad scene where I mean, there's not blood but it's pretty graphic .	b	Yeah.

sv	But it's a really good movie,	b	Really,

ny^r	yeah,	bk	Okay,

sd	and she's also , a little on the nutso side.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	we haven't,	sd	I saw that one,

bh	it wasn't?	ng	Well I didn't think so,

sd	I heard like mixed reviews, of that,	qo	How about SILENCE OF THE LAMBS?

sd	that's on our list of things to see .	ba	I know,

sd	I think it's like six bucks now in the theaters,	b	Yeah.

sd	and then a lot of other stuff we just wait until it comes out on tape.	sd	That's us too,

sd	well one movie we saw in the last couple of months that we really enjoyed was, EDWARD SCISSORHANDS.	b	really.

qy	have you seen that?	nn	No.

sv	it was great .	b	Really.

sv	it was,	sd	I thought it was kind of maybe for kids more, than ad ,

sd	I like the director a lot, a guy named Tim Burton.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Did you ever see the movie BEETLEJUICE?	na	part of it,

sv	if you didn't like BEETLEJUICE you'll probably won't like EDWARD SCISSORHANDS.	b	really.

sd	and, I liked those two movies of his a lot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He did BATMAN also, which, you know .	b	Yeah,

aa	It was good,	sv	When you think of what it takes to make some of those kind of movies, you know.

aa	Yeah.	sd	You see it for, you know a couple of hours or an hour

b	Yeah.	qw	Whose your favorite actress or actor?

sd	but, I'm a big baseball fan	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, you know, after BULL DURHAM and FIELD OF DREAMS, you know,	b	Yeah.

qw	Which one?	sd	FIELD OF DREAMS.

sd	NO WAY OUT was really good	aa	yeah,

qy	did you ever see SILVERADO?	b^m	SILVERADO,

sd	John Kreas is in it if you don't blink.	sd	the title sounds familiar,

sd	and it was one of those ones that could have been four hours if they hadn't cut a lot out.	b	really.

sv	but it was really good .	sd	I might have seen part of that because the name sounds familiar although I would remember, I think in, with him in it.

b	Uh huh.	qo	How about REVENGE,

qy	is that any good?	sd	With, Anthony Quinn.

bk	okay.	sv	You know, it's, one of those movies that it's not a great movie

sd	You know the people who run the video store was recommending it to somebody else.	b	Yeah

qy	you said you seen NO WAY OUT?	ny	Yeah,

sd	he was in THE UNTOUCHABLES, too.	sd	Now that's another one I wanted to see.

b	Yeah,	qy^d	Cable?

sd^e	it was on one of the networks, I think last weekend. or two weeks ago.	bk	Okay,

sd	and, you know, I saw part of it again.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I've really enjoyed him in everything I've seen him in, a guy named Charles Martin Smith.	sd	I don't know him.

qy	did you ever see AMERICAN GRAFFITI?	nn	No,

qy	Did you ever see the movie STAR MAN.	ny	Yes.

sd	in STAR MAN, he was the guy chasing after, Jeff Bridges and Karen Allen, or Nancy Allen.	b	Okay,

sd	short nerdy guy with glasses.	b	Yeah,

sd	He was the accountant .	sd	I know who you mean.

b	Yeah.	qy^g	He was in, HONEY DON'T SHRINK THE KIDS, wasn't he?

sd	but he's not .	bk	okay,

 b	Yeah.	 +	an escape type of thing.

 b	Yeah.	qo	How about some of the ads,

sd	a review usually won't make me go see a movie I hadn't already wanted to see.	b	Yeah.

sd	I want to see it.	sv	that was pretty good.

sd	but my girlfriend's seen part one and part two although she saw them years ago,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, we're probably going to like rent those some time and then try to see GODFATHER PART THREE somewhere.	sv	I was just going to say, you should see those, first if you can.

b	Yeah.	sv	if you read the book it's, even better.

sd	I haven't, never read it.	b	Yeah.

sd	And Brando like does a parody of the character he played in THE GODFATHER.	b	really.

sd	and then he's running into Marlon Brando who is playing, you know, you know this, organized crime head.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, it was, it was a fun movie.	qy@	How about Tom Cruise, do you like his stuff? COCKTAILS,

sd	I thought it was interesting that he was doing som ,	aa	yeah,

sd	being from Baltimore, of course, I'm a big Barry Levinson fan since, he's, you know, he's done a bunch of Baltimore movies.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Barry Levinson did, DINER and TINMAN, and AVALON which are all set in Baltimore.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	especially if there's commercial in it .

sv	but DINER is really worth seeing.	qy^d	Is that the one set in the fifties, or sixties.

ny	yeah.	b^m	Late fifties,

b	Okay	qo	How about Meryl Streep,

sd	well, I, I guess if I was having a dinner party depending on the number of people, I might cook like a brisket or a roast or maybe a chicken dish	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we usually serve fresh fruit and, then make a dessert.	ba	that sounds good.

ba	Well, that sounds good.	 sd	It's good.

 ba^r	That sounds good.	sd	And, then, tossed salad and,

qy	Bread, do you have bread to go with it?	sd	Corn,

ba	Gosh.	sd	I have a recipe that's pretty good for that .

sv	well, lasagna's always wonderful for large crowds.	b	Yeah.

sd	they've told me that they go to Sam's and buy a great big pan of lasagna.	sd	I've heard that Sam's has a really good lasagna

bh	Did you?	sd	It was good.

sd	and they say, gosh, if you have company coming when you don't want to be always in the kitchen, it's easy,	^2	Easy .

sd	and they said it's good.	b	Yeah.

ba	So, that, always sounds good to me,	b	Yeah.

sd	I feel like I'm in the kitchen cooking a lot.	ba	I know.

sd	guess I cook a, seems like I cook a lot of dinners, not always for company, just for family.	b	yeah.

sd	So, feels like I'm often in the kitchen.	sv	Not my favorite place, but. A necessity .

b^r	right,	^h	Let's see,

sd^r	I don't know what that is.	sd	You take a flour tortilla

b	Right.	sd	for all the inside parts you brown hamburger and put some, tomato sauce in it,

b	Right.	^h	And, then, let's see,

b	Right.	 sd	and you can put, like guacamole and

qy	Do you like to make your own guacamole?	ny	yeah.

sd	we don't make it very often, I guess,	aa	No,

ba	Gosh,	sd	I just cut slices off

 ba	Gosh,	 +	I like an avocado sandwich, too.

sd	or it's always good on top of something in the sandwich.	b	Yeah,

sd	and everyone there said they never made guacamole salad.	qw	where do they get it? .

sv	I guess they don't have it at home,	sv	I can't imagine it would stay fresh long enough to,

sd	So I was concerned that, taking this, you know, taking this as a dip, I thought, gosh, you know, sometimes when we have it at home it, it turns dark on the top so quickly,	b	Yeah.

qy	does that help?	ny	Yeah,

b	Okay,	sd	That's supposed to help keep it from turning brown so quick.

sd	and it really stayed longer than I ever thought it would,	b	Oh.

sd	I thought maybe that was the trick.	sv	That probably helps, too.

sd	we've been buying turkey lately, instead of beef,	t3	Do you want it?

sd	everybody seems to like it.	t3	Do you want scrambled?

sd	so we often buy it	b	Yeah.

sd	we buy it,	sv	if you get it on sale,

sd	and I don't think anybody in my house knows the difference, unless you tell them.	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sd	Poultry instead of the beef and pork,

sv^t	Well, I guess that's probably all we need to do for tonight.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I always like dessert .	sd	One salad that we always like, my sister in law always brings to family dinners, is a,

b^r	right	sv	that's good and quick and easy,

sd	and we take a recipe from my grandmother, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	I really a , am concerned that, so many of these child care places are coming under, you know, investigation for, you know, child molestation.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and why, why would they be interested in your little turnip unless, you know, one of the motivations in the hidden agenda is well that's somebody to molest, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so we really didn't have that much exposure to it.	b	Uh huh.

b	Huh.	sv	you know, it is a problem.

b	Huh.	sd	And then as they got older, they went to, I preferred to call them schools

ba	well that's interesting.	sd	But we really truly did pay a fortune.

sv	Well you must have just one hero ace professional job to support something like that.	sd	I'm a physician. as is my husband.

ba	well, yeah .	sd	and I felt, very good about working.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I think there are some wonderful child care opportunities out there for children

sd	I'm an engineer.	sv	I think it's real important that you have a place that, first of all parents have a lot of input into and that they're always welcome and that they have a lot of activities where parents come in during the day and that at any time you can drop in.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they had a wonderful, program that started at age three

b	Yeah.	sd	most of the teachers had degrees.

sd	Five hundred dollars a week. For two kids.	b	Yeah.

sv	That's incredible.	aa	It was incredible actually .

 b	Yeah.	 +	and, and really feel they have to put their children,

sv	and you know, that's a good starting wage	b	Uh huh.

sv	but boy three hundred dollars a week doesn't go very far on child care.	b	Uh huh.

b	Huh.	sd	you know, the good ones do cost maybe sixty dollars a week since .

sd	But mine are twenty two, twenty three and twenty seven	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I guess baby sitters now are up at, what, five dollars an hour?	na	Something like that.

ba	my.	sd	Well, you know, but you made the comment earlier, why would someone be interested in children.

b	Uh huh.	 sd	As you start putting lots of little kids together, the infection rates that go around .

b	Yes.	sd	So I went ahead, and accepted every one that I was offered. Because I knew it would be easier to go ahead and get them and establish credit early.

b	Right.	sd	So, I pack around a lot of them,

sd	They make it really easy for people to get credit cards, especially college students.	b	Yeah.

sd	But they both have a lot of credit cards.	sd	And they give you such high credit limits.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's easy to get caught up in the minimum payment trap.

sd	And that's how a lot of people get into trouble.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then all of the others I just try to use kind of like you would an American Express card and pay it off every month.

b	Right.	sd	And that way I feel like I'm getting, you know, a thirty day loan.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I don't have to worry about, you know, running them up too high, except at Christmas.

sd	I've, I've paid off about four credit cards this year.	 b	Uh huh.

sd	And especially the Visa Card that you can go and get cash on .	b	Yeah.

sd	And it seems like every time I'm short of cash, I just go get it from Visa.	sd	I've never used my Visa for cash before.

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	Can you use it like at a bank machine

sd	Or if they've sent you a number that you can use. You know, a personal identification number that you can use in the, impact machines or whatever, you, you can do that.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, sometimes you have to ask them for that.	b	Yeah.

sd	And then I have one that, just gave me the pin number automatically.	sd	Now we got,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now a couple of weeks later we got pin numbers,

b	Right.	sd	And we cut them up and sent them back because we hadn't even applied for them,

ba	wow! .	sd	So I thought, man, I don't know if I trust this or not .

sd	ev , everybody in the world will offer you a credit card.	sd(^q)	It's like, let's see if we can get her to run up her bills .

b	Uh huh.	sd	Just I feel like even that little bit helps.

sd	that's why I've really started to try to pay off mine and get out of debt. Because we never know when we might, you know, get laid off or something.	ba	I know it.

sd	and they've had a lot of, you know, layoffs lately.	sd	Well, I work for T I too.

bh	You do?	sd	And I think they're getting ready to probably sell us out, our division.

qw	Where are you?	sd	In Johnson City, Tennessee.

sd	I know they're selling out somebody in Colorado Springs.	b	Yeah.

ny	Yeah.	sv	So, I mean, it's kind of a bad time to be a slave to your credit cards.

sd	I have worked on a part time job, where I was a collector. For, a jewelry company .	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean they have about a thousand collectors, I guess.	b	Man!

sd	And, there's just so many people that have bought jewelry, which is really a luxury item	b	Yeah.

sd	but they got it for a friend	b	Oh.

sd	and then the friend wouldn't pay them.	^2	Didn't pay them.

sd	and you really have to watch this you know.	ba	Man.

sd	Because every month all of these credit cards report to the credit bureau, you know. Automatically, most of them do.	ba	I didn't realize that.

sd	bad because if you know, your bill is due on the fifteenth	b	Yeah.

 +	then y , y , you , you're not past due until the fifteenth of the next month.	b	okay.

sd	you're thirty days late.	qy^g	they don't recognize any time difference, do they?

aa	Right,	ba	Ooh,

b	right.	ba	that's scary.

sd	and, anyway, we need to watch our credit reports and all that kind of,	sd	That's something I never thought about getting, you know, checking with to see what your credit report looked like.

sd	I believe it costs about ten dollars.	ba	Might be worth it for peace of mind.

sd	and you're thirty days is not real bad though anyway. If you've got a charge off on your credit report or something like that.	b	Yeah.

sd	Or something you haven't paid in sixty days or ninety days, you know. And things like that .	sd	I think that Discover Card has a good idea with, you know, giving you a little cash back incentive for each amount you purchase. As long as you don't go crazy trying to get cash back.

 b	Uh huh.	sd	And since they don't have the yearly fee.

qy	Do they charge a lot of interest on that card?	no	I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I felt like with Visa and Mastercard and American Express you didn't need another one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I would think it wouldn't be, you know, much more than the eighteen or nineteen percent everyone else charges.

b	Yeah .	sv	So that wouldn't be too bad.

sd	and I hadn't read the, terms of the credit agreement really.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was like twenty three percent interest.	ba	Holy cow!

sd	And that's the one bill that I hurried and paid up.	ba	Definitely.

sd	And, and I've always watched it since then.	ba	That's awful.

sd	You really have to watch those interest rates.	sd	I mean there's no point in giving them any more money than we have to.

sd	But there are a couple of states that can.	ba	that's great.

sd	And one to watch out for is anybody that bills you out of Atlanta, Georgia.	cc	I'll try to remember that one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I had ordered a sofa and had filled out the paperwork,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I changed my mind,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but then they went ahead and charged it on my account.

b	Oh.	sd	And it took me about eighteen months to get all of that mess off of my account.

o	Okay .	qo	How are you?

sd	But I'm glad you're a stranger.	sv	That sounds kind of like me.

qw	What do you do?	sd	About the same thing.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

sd	Maybe they're going to arrest us both.	sd	I'm even in worse shape because I have eight children

ba	Wow.	sd	A couple of times we've tried some things

b	Uh huh.	sd	The best program we ever had is at the beginning of the month we took my check and divided it out into envelopes and then paid for the expenses out of that envelope

b	Yeah.	sd	and when the envelope was empty , then you didn't have any more money to spend in that area.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that worked out real well cause we didn't have to keep writing down what we'd spent.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	It was just that when that was empty, you knew you were out of money.

sd	and every time I spent money, I mean cash mostly, I would, write it down so I could see at the end of a month how much I spent on food so I could do better planning.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I certainly haven't done that in sixteen years or whatever.	sd	I even find now like with the automatic tellers, I'll go take money out of that

b	Yeah.	sd	and then I forget to take that out of my checking account.

b	Yeah.	sd	So I, I leave a little bit of a slush fund in my checking account so the balance showing in the checking account is always somewhat different that what's really there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I figure that gives me room for the mistakes I make.

sd	it was nineteen years old.	b	Yeah.

sd	It isn't like I couldn't afford one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but for me, I only do that every week or, I mean, maybe once a month.	b	Yeah.

sv	To me, I realize if you have eight kids you're not going to run out and do that.	aa	Not very often .

sv	And so if you're extravagant on how you buy food, it doesn't add up. I mean if you're not going to super expensive restaurants, which I don't care to go to.	aa	That's right.

qy	Do you all have a budget?	ny	Well, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we have, three teenage daughters

b	Yeah.	sd	We've actually gone, just recently, to you know having two checking accounts.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And now we are having two.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I have to be.

sd	We just scramble through month to month, you know.	aa	Yes.

sd	we have a two income family.	b	Yeah.

sd	She also works	b^r	Yeah.

sd	I'm pretty bad about procrastinating	b	Uh huh.

sd	and one of these days I am going to do something about that I believe .	b	Yeah.

sd	She, she writes all the checks, you know, once a month.	bf	So your wife,

sd^e	She's, an annuity administrator	bk	Oh.

sd	and so she works for an insurance company.	b	Uh huh.

sd	She likes keeping track of all that stuff	b	Yeah,

sd^e	sort of.	b	Yeah.

sd	We try to keep our retirement and our savings kind of automated	b^r	Yeah.

sd	Just like taken directly.	bf	It's just taking it out, right.

aa	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sv	because if you don't see it, you don't miss it .	b	Yeah,

sd	You don't spend it.	sd	you have something to take it out.

b	Yeah.	sd	and they've always had, where they match your funds, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, we've done that too.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and he has now for about, oh gosh, how long has it been, ten years I guess.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and I get paid very little

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I use that for food, household expenses,

b	Yeah.	sd	but the expenses that we need and have around the house.

bf	Just kind of play it by ear, but keep the deductions you know .	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know. I am given so much money a month,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I try not to, you know,

b	Yeah .	sv	Because I think when you go to the grocery store, you can go crazy with all the choices that you have

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, you can really waste a lot of money that way.

b	Yeah.	qw	So, well how long have you been married?

sd	about five years.	b^m	yeah.

sd^e	She's like, nineteen months.	b	yeah.

sd	So, she's not,	^2	She hasn't effected your budget yet really.

sd	Not too bad.	aa	No.

b	Yeah.	sv	You will see that all of a sudden you're trying to decide whether you are going to do, you know, soccer and piano and all these choices that they have of activities to do

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	and then you really have to start saying okay, now what can we afford you know,

b	Yeah.	^q	what can we do here

b^r	Yeah.	sv	and then as the girls got older, I think we did more and more of that.

b	Uh huh.	qw	but what do you do?

sd	I, I work for, I'm an electronic technician.	bk	okay.

sd	I work for a university. Georgia Tech, research	b	Oh.

b	well .	sd	But, budgeting.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it would be very hard for me because I wouldn't have any idea how much money I was spending in one month.

b	Yeah.	sd	Now, I know exactly what I'm spending

sd	My grandfather is ninety two years old.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He lives in a little farmhouse on a farm.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	but he just really doesn't want to go to a nursing home.	qy	Is he able to, still do everything himself pretty well?

sd	He has arthritis.	bk	yeah.

sd	And I have one aunt that really looks after him a lot.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, my great grandfather was put in a nursing home when he was a hundred and three.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, died six weeks after they put him in the home.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	^q	and I'm just here for the rest of the stay .

b	Uh huh.	sd	they can look after a lot of things

sv	But I just don't think that nursing homes really do a very good job.	sv	And that's difficult part.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know, like here in Saskatchewan, we have our hospital care the care actually for the older people graded in four levels.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I think that it can be helpful in that, it gets people the level of physical care they need.

sv	But I think a lot of nursing homes really, are guilty of neglect.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, if you're not able to look after yourself, then you have to rely,

qo	or, or what do you think?	^h	Well, that's a really hard question.

sd	and supposedly this money is going into some kind of fund so that when it comes our turn to retire, the money will be there for us.	b	Right.

sv	and you know, as far as return investment, that's nothing	aa	Yes,

sd	and they just haven't yet.	b	Well, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm not sure if we know what to do in terms of curing some who has already gotten polio.

sd	it's like seventy five percent of the historical sites in America are in the home districts of very powerful people politically	b	Right.

sd	that histor , for some reason, historical sites with, you know, the full federal money and everything seem to appear as almost as like political favors to very strong politicians.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the poor President has to, either accept or reject the whole thing.

bf	So, it sounds like you think that we'd be able to save some money by, passing the line item veto.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	sv	And whenever there's that kind of subjective judgment, there's always going to be a dispute as to, where the boundary between waste and necessity is.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I'm not sure that that will help solve our problems,

bf	Pork barrel politics.	b^m	Pork barrel politics.

sv	but Massachusetts when Dukakis was there, anyway, wasn't in that great shape financially.	sv	at least at the end.

h	I mean, I don't know,	b	Yeah,

sv	or you can hope that if people keep their money that they'll spend more and create jobs and whatnot.	^2	And spare the economy.

sd	and it became so onerous that we gave up on it .	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I only update that, I don't know, maybe once every quarter or so. Every three months. Just, basically when the statements come in. You know. Just to see whether or not we're you know, getting ahead, falling behind or staying even or what.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's really about, you know, the extent of the kind of, financial score keeping that we're doing.	sd	Well it's kind of difficult for me. Because right now, like most teachers, I'm laid off

by	Oh dear, that's terrible.	sd	so, I spend most, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So it's very hard on a nonfixed income because I don't know how many days I'm going to be called in and whether I am or not, to try to keep track of finances.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	but I know how much I have to bring in a month .

qy	Are you living with, with people that you're sharing expenses?	nn	no.

b	uh huh.	sd	So, right now, we get you know, aid from the state at this point because there's no other way to do it.

ba	Oh dear.	sd	So right now I know what I'm getting from the state

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I still have to figure out.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	Like this week I've been just holding my breath and hoping they'll call me in

b	I see.	sd	So, you know, the four days before, they only have a four day week

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they usually don't need subs because everybody's pretty good about coming in .

b	I see.	sv	They don't like to be absent before a vacation.

b	sure.	sd	But well I'm shopping around as far as trying that's why I'm doing this, to get some extra money. And, getting pledge sheets for the Boy Scouts.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My kids are in Boy Scouts

sd	my next door neighbor just lost his job. In you know, one of these,	ba	my Lord.

sd	I don't know what a shoe company's doing running a computer company.	b	Really.

sd	they took the top management and gave them jobs with the corporate, at the corporate front office	b	Uh huh.

sd	and everybody else was sent packing.	b	Oh .

sd	I've got	aa	Sure.

sv	but at the present stage, you probably are even more in the market for a budgetary thing than most people probably might be. In terms of keeping score of input and output.	b	Right.

qy	do you have a computer at home	ny	yes

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, I keep track of every penny. And, more or less, enter it in.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Every single day I'm at the computer.

b	I see.	sd(^q)	And, it's like, okay, what do we have left, what do we have to pay, what have we paid this month. What hasn't come in yet, you know .

b^m	Okay.	sd	Universal health insurance,

na	That's right.	o@	* all 3 utts should be separate slash units Well, I think universal health insurance, like national health, like what Canada has, Is that what you're thinking the subject is about?

sv	I think that's what the subject is about.	qy	Did you read, the article in the paper today about this particular subject?

qy^d^h	In the MORNING TIMES?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I guess I did not.	sd	the state of Washington and the state of Minnesota is, going to begin testing a state funded program for citizens of those two states

sv	Well, it's been interesting that we,	sv	Extremely expensive, though.

sv	So we live in a society, though, where everyone if you ask them on polls, will, say that they think that everyone has a right to health care.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And yet, I don't think we've ever quite decided who's really supposed to pay for it.	o	Well, that's the thing, you know,

sv	we ought to just admit it perhaps and then try and somehow subsidize it in a way that's more fair.	b	Yeah.

qy	You have health insurance?	ny	Yes,

qy^d	Through your company?	sd^m	through my company,

ba	my goodness.	sd	And it was a go to Parkland type situation.

qo	How was your care at Parkland?	sv	because it was a life threatening situation, it was very good.

sd	But, yet, Parkland is not free, either.	aa	No,

sv	So you did have a good experience.	ar	I had a bad experience as it turned out.

qy	Is your wife better, I hope?	nn^e	no she passed away.

by	I'm real sorry.	bd	That's all right.

b*	Sure. / * listen; is this a question?	bd	That happens.

sv	but it's very sad.	b	Yeah,

sd	Actually, I'm a pediatrician	bh	is that right?

sd	and I feel very strongly about, children, and, developed very strong feelings about this during our measles epidemic last year. Where we certainly proved that we're not doing a very good job with preventive health care among children and particularly the children who need it most.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, I strongly believe that all children have a right to immunization, glasses, hearing aids , basic health benefits.	sd	Well, when I grew up and

sv	that has really forced people into doing a lot of things unnecessarily, et cetera.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Thirty one percent of all Texas children do not have insurance and are not on Medicaid.	sd	Did not know that.

sd	and it's pretty overwhelming to me.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I don't know if you are familiar with that.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I kind of gave up on the idea of using Quicken, at least for now.

sd	I've found it's the only reliable way to keep a check book balanced actually because what will happen is my wife will write a few checks and then, well, not bother to total it	b	Uh huh.

sv	So it really helps with that.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	qo	Well, how to you handle that, the long range or medium range planning on finances?

sd	so we needed to start doing more of that just for, you know, saving for college and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We try to put away two and four thousand a year just for that.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so we are going to be starting a regular payroll deduction in the fall

sv	so it's a lot more interesting trying to,	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, kind of enforce the savings.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, it will be interesting to see .	sd	Well our situation is just kind of the opposite of that cause my wife was not working for some time and was going to school and just recently, took on a full time job, well almost full time.

qw	But, I was just curious, what, part of the country.	sd	Stockton.

bk	okay.	qo	How about you?

sv	but well that's interesting.	b	Uh huh.

qrr	or was there another?	sd	a colleague of mine at, work got some information over, the computer network called INTERNET.

sd	that is how I got it as well	sd	And he just forwarded that on to me

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I sent back mail.

sd^t	so, well, I guess we're talking about the experiment.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, it's hard to talk about finances without getting to, dollar figures I guess you know,	b	Uh huh.

co	we could talk about some of the long range goals	qo	Well what other long range goals do you have besides college?

sd	well I think, either my wife or I would like to pursue advanced degrees at some point	b	Uh huh.

sv	It seems like every year my employer just gives back, you know, a little bit your tuition reimbursement.	b	Uh huh.

qy	So, do your privacy being invaded at any time?	sv	Well, one of the things that I found to be, an invasion is when I pay for something with a credit card and they ask me to put my telephone number on the, credit card bill.

b	Right.	sd	and, in fact, it is actually prohibited

^q	You going to say you don't want to sell me this product then that's fine.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, really it's part of this compliance thing.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	I know that certain states actually sell their lists like, motor vehicles.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	You have to do that.	b	Right.

sd	And nowhere does it asks you whether you have permission or not to sell your name or information regarding that to anyone.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then they go ahead and take that information and sell it to somebody. You know,	b	Right.

sv	I don't think they have the right to do that.	aa	I agree with you there.

sv	Whenever you donate money to someone?	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you start getting millions of calls or solicitations.	b	Right.

sv	it kind of makes you feel from doing it again.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Like, National Public Radio or any of the public, stations, you know.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	I, I, I think I sent in money f , once to public, T V.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and it just started soon after I had done that one.	b	Right.

sd	and that's also happened to me where I've given money to my old Alma Mater in college.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the people do these phonathons	b	Right.

ad	And, you know, like hold on here.	bf	How do you know that?

sv	There's no need for someone who is soliciting should know at all.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and that was very offensive too.	sd	Last year, the, Lotus Development Company, the, company that puts out One, Two, Three was planning on marketing a, C D Rom with people's names sorted by number of different criteria.

sv	I think that, one, advantage of having, the unanimous verdict is that in a criminal case you want to make sure that you don't, convict someone who, really shouldn't be convicted.	aa	Definitely.

sv	I guess maybe one drawback of it is that if you have one juror who is very unreasonable in some way, that, you, would have a problem, you know, that you wouldn't convict someone who maybe should be convicted.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you ever served on a jury before?	na	I have twice.

bk	okay.	sv	It was a pretty wild experience.

qw	what sorts of cases were they?	sd	They were just, you know, small time cases where, trailers and banks were involved, you know.

qr	So were they criminal or civil?	sd	They were civil.

qy	did the jury have trouble reaching a decision?	sd	the jury, let me see, I think it was ten to one on the jury, because they only had to have eleven people

b	Yeah.	sd	and, the one changed his vote at the end.

qy	So did it become?	sd	So it became unanimous, you know, after they turned it in

b	Yeah.	sd	and then he changed his mind after they turned it in

qy^d	You just needed a majority?	aa	Right.

qy^d	That was also civil?	sd	the other case was just traffic,

b	Yeah.	sd	and it didn't even hardly go through,

sd	so I haven't been, you know, a jury eligible age for very long	b	Yeah.

sd	but I declined it which I'm able to do because I'm a student, because it was, a very bad time.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I wonder if maybe in some civil cases it doesn't work as well.	sv	I wouldn't think that it does I mean, from my, from what I experienced in them,

qy^d	you thought it turned out pretty well?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm not used to it not being organized,

qy^d	someone had to figure out what was going on?	aa	That's about what it was.

qy	I mean, did a couple of people sort of gradually, sort of assume, sort of a moderator role in the trial	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	So it did end up working out pretty well?	ny	Yeah,

sv	The one thing I sometimes wonder about, in civil cases is, whether, especially sort of in, maybe like product liability, or medical malpractice, where there's, sort of a very technical decision to be made sometimes	b	Yes.

sv	and I wonder if there's really, if the system works adequately in educating the jurors about, whatever, you know, issue is under discussion.	sv	I don't think that they, they educate them enough to really know what's going on.

sd	in the case you were involved in, you said it was just sort of a bank matter of some kind.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	It was on his property.

bf	and he hadn't made the payments.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	And then when they came to get it, well, it was on the landlord's property

bf	so they were suing to get it back.	sd	and it was a double wide,

b	Yeah.	sd	and then when they came back to get it a couple of days later it had rained and got all in it.

sd	My daughter that's seventeen now I worked even when she was a baby.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I was really lucky to have put them in a, Methodist day school at Preston Hollow Methodist, right off of Walnut Hill and Preston.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just wish all kids, if they have to be put in day school, could have that kind of place .	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, it worked well.	b	Oh.

qo	How about you?	sd	Well, I have, a nine year old and a six year old

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	but, they both went through preschool.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, we've just been real lucky I think, anyway. To not,

sv	So many of the churches have really strong preschool and children's day out	aa	Right,

sd	I just couldn't hack it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So there was real continuity.	b	Oh.

sd	and these people that had changed her diapers when she was three were still there.	ba	my gosh.

sd	and she just kept good people and real cheerful place, lots of arts and crafts,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'm really glad my kids had it because Plano schools do so little of that. That if they hadn't had it before they hit first grade they were never going to have any art or music or any of the interpretive stuff.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	your lucky to have an art teacher

sd	and you know, I willingly did it	bh	is that right?

sv	This is something that ought to be in the schools rather than some of the other stuff they do.	ba	my goodness.

sv	And parents who really want their kids to have any humanities are going to have to do that.	ba	my goodness.

sv	So, in some ways I think the day schools do serve those purposes.	aa	Yeah.

bf	Put the colors away .	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	That's hard.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	It's so difficult for them.

sd^e	both times they were at our house.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'd practically give my paycheck away to do it,	b	Yeah.

sd	the first one was an, elderly lady who was putting a daughter through nursing school just purely on baby sitting money.	b	Oh.

sd	And she kept Cheryl during the day and then did more baby sitting at night.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And she was neat because she was like the grandmother that my kids never had because both our parents are dead.	b	Yeah.

sd	So that was a plus from that respect as well.	ba	gosh.

sd	And then with Emily it was a neighborhood friend that kept her.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I just cannot fathom putting a little bitty baby in a commercial care center.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's some kind of advisory board they've put together for parents and children

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and they've now moved it to Washington, D C

sd	and our benefits for maternal and parental care and even for elderly people are really expanding.	b	Uh huh.

sd	with being able to take off full time longer you can phase your schedule in so that it's not full time for up to six months.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	or they've, you know, whatever schedule they want from a pay standpoint.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And that helps because you don't have to just wean yourself cold turkey and say okay, I never get to see my baby for eight hours a day again.	b	Yeah.

sd	of course it's too late for me so I've not tried them to see how effective they are	b	Yeah .

sv	but I think we're finally beginning to make progress but just not very fast .	b	Uh huh.

sd	And for our age group it's too late, too little, too late.	b	Right.

sv	But I do think it's an area that needs to be looked at and improved because more of us are going to have to work.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Two income families I think are here to stay.	sv	Well and I would think, you know, since big business is supposedly why the government makes the decisions they do you know, the people that work in big business have families

b	Right.	sd	they have children.

b	Yeah.	sv	So, it's only to their advantage that they get these programs going and working

sd	that was the rationale they gave when they were giving us information about our Employee Assistance Programs that they want us to be happy and want us to be able to cope with trying to split ourselves in fifteen million pieces .	b	Uh huh.

sv	It seems to help the new mothers not have to come back full time.	ba	good.

sv	because that's hard.	ba	That's good to know.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	usually, you know, you'll find a woman that's keeping like six children or four to six children in the home

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and my future sister in law's mother does that too, full time.

sd	from the time she started first grade, I wanted her out in Plano area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they'd move.	b	Oh.

sd	She ended up being in a different home every year.	bf	Too transit.

sd	And I finally decided I didn't like that because it was traumatic to her to get so attached to a family and then have them move.	^2	And her surroundings.

qy	All right, have you lived in this area long?	nn	No,

bk	Okay.	sv	but, I've noticed that, this year it seems to have been a lot warmer than it has in the past.

sv	I mean by mid February, I mean, we start getting a lot of rain.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, this year it's been so hot and, sunny

sd	my wife and I we used to live in San Antonio, couple years ago,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was so much ice that came down, later on that afternoon and evening,	b	 Yes,

sv	it was horrible.	sd	I was just talking to my son today,

b	Yeah.	sd	he really wished he could be here, rather than there.

sd	I guess I'm just sort of acclimated to colder weather.	bh	really.

sd	I mean, I would much rather see it cool at this time of year anyway because it would mean a little bit more rain possibly	b	Uh huh,

sv	it's just not very comfortable,	qy	do you think San Antonio is more comfortable than Dallas.

sd^e	a little bit.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	qy^g	it must be quite a bit hotter down there, isn't it?

sd	and the air conditioning went out on the car ,	ba	wow.

sv	and, you, you just get used to air conditioning all the time,	aa	yes.

sd	and it was just killing us.	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, that's really bad.

sd	well, I mean, I, I guess I've been in some places, you know, where the weather was just so mild, you know, places like Monterey, California or, you know,	b	Uh huh,

sv	you know you're sweating,	b	Yeah.

sd	it's so hot, you just feel it pulling away, bizarre.	ba	wow,

b	Yeah.	sd	some people say, they like to watch the changing of the seasons

b	Yeah.	sv	So, it's kind of a luxury.

sd	they said talk about the Middle East situ , well,	sv	I guess we're supposed to say good bye or something, and think about what

sv	I mean you can only talk about the situation just so long.	aa	Yeah,

fc	Okay.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	we're actually trying to find one now because our family's growing.	bh	Are you really?

sd	So, I'm looking for something, littler bigger,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and, we're looking at, some just four door, five passenger sedans as well.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't really have a preference either way I guess. You know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I haven't had any real substantial problems with the ones I've had.	b^r	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know that kind of rubs against the grain right now in the whole, you know, buy American, keep American auto workers working right now,

b	Yeah.	sd	If I were to buy another car, I would be partial to buying another Japanese car,

sv	I mean, e , even if it's just details, it seems like, they, you know,	sd	So, if I were,

sd	It's clearly just a design problem there.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I'm looking for more a two passenger car that,

qy^d	like a Miata or something like that?	^h	Well, I like the Miata,

ba	Interesting.	sd	because I have an economy car right now, which is okay,

sv	I guess probably the factors we'd use to compare are a little different because I look for, you know, size and safety, and then mileage.	b	Right.

sd	I think in terms of computer terminology, I look at, you know, price performance and things like that. And then a little bit at life expectancy, I guess,	aa	Right,

sv	but it, you know depends on what you pay initially.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, you know I've got a hundred and twenty five thousand miles on the Charger.	aa	That's right.

sd	Actually it was my wife's car that she brought into the marriage	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she got just a commute between Cincinnati and Dayton.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	but the other ninety four thousand have been just fine , with it,	b^r	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that was, I think, what really prejudiced me against American cars because I did not feel that it was a very quality, car.

b	Yeah.	sv	So, I guess you'd have to say, if I was looking, I would definitely be looking for a foreign car.

sd	but I think they're obliged to have these things because Hertz and Avis and those folks have it in their contract that they can sell it back to G M after they've used it for six months and put you know, twelve or fifteen thousand miles, on it	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you can get those for like eight thousand bucks if you,	sv	Which is a good deal.

sd	I mean, well, ninety two's, granted, but the new ones, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	fourteen to sixteen is what they go for on the lot,	b	Right.

sd	and, the dealer comes out okay you know,	b	Yeah

h	and , So, but, I don't know,	aa	Yeah,

sd	we can get like a Caravan at twelve, five	b	Uh huh.

qw	what's our topic?	sd	Taxes.

sd^m	Taxes.	qy	Do we pay too much?

b^r	Right.	qy	Well, do we?

sv	I mean it all depends really on what kind of bracket you're in.	sd	My tax bracket is pretty high up there.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, I think that we're paying too much

b	Right.	sd	And I pay a lot of property taxes.

b	sure.	sd	I don't, you know, I don't use an awful lot of city services.

b	Right.	sd	And, there's so many people who want a dib of the federal money or the state money or whatever it is

b	Uh huh.	sd	many times I end up feeling like I'm paying too much in taxes.

b	Right.	qo	How about you?

sd	and, one of my parents is still claiming me.	sv	Well, when you when you go out into the, when you go out into the working world it changes quickly.

aa	I'm sure .	sd	you look at your paycheck

sd	but I didn't make enough money to really make, too much of a difference.	^2	To worry about it.

aa	Right.	qy	have you been active in politics concerning this?

sd^e	I haven't.	sd	I haven't done any of that type of work myself.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but every once in a while when I hear up here at, in D C area, one of the radio stations has been talking about the Congress,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And one of the Congressmen has written in the last three years about a thousand bad checks.

bh	Really?	sd	And, it's causing quite a stir up here, because we're so close to D C anyway.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	It's really kind of curious to watch this thing occur.

ba	sure.	sv	I, I think we pay too much.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think I pay forty two percent.

ba	Wow.	sd	Forty two cents out of every dollar I make goes to the government,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they charge me all these others,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't believe that

ny	Yeah.	qy	have you used, student loans and things like that that were guaranteed by the government?

sd	So, I haven't made use of that.	qw	What are you studying down there?

sd	Physics.	b^m	Physics.

aa	Uh huh.	sv	that sounds like a fun field.

sd	Everybody says that .	sd	Scientific.

sd	so I guess you could call it more straight stuff than applied.	bk	Okay.

qy	are, is America, I mean are we pretty steep compared to most countries?	ng	Actually, I don't think we are.

sd	I don't think so either.	sd	like Europe, England. I know the taxes are a lot higher.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	But they do have socialized medicine and things like that.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I know I was reading in the paper I believe yesterday that, they're talking,

o	Anyway, .	qo	How about you.

sd	I, it's called living within your means . You know, which means at the moment, paying off the VISA bill and keeping everything else under control and hoping the car doesn't collapse .	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then it goes through the moon,	b	Yeah,

qw	so what do yo ,	sd	we're trying to,

qy^d	So you can afford to get a house?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, we don't know how long it will be a dream.

qw	So, what do you and your husband do?	sd	We're missionaries actually.

bh	Are you really?	ny	Yeah,

ba	No kidding.	sd	And it doesn't get switched very easily once you come home.

qw	Overseas, where would you be going?	sd	Africa,

b	Really.	b	Yeah.

qw	How long would you be there?	sd	About four years.

qw	with what Church?	sd	we're with Wycliff Bible Translators.

sd	they have an office, in Costa Mesa as I recall.	b	Yeah,

qy	So, are you, active in translation?	no	we will be.

b	Uh huh .	sd	And, came home and got married

qw	So, what, what languages do you speak besides English, of course?	sd	Well, I have a smattering of about ten different ones,

b	Uh huh .	sd	So I know the greetings in about ten, and how to do market stuff,

^2	In France.	aa	Yeah,

sv	seems to be a lot of controversy about that .	b	Yeah.

sv	but I lean towards, if it's premeditated or if it's, kind of a habitual or a tendency that people, may get into, then I guess I don't really have a problem with it .	b	yeah.

sv	and they wind up back on the streets after five years or six years or like the kid on the news tonight out in Mesquite who was out in six months. .	b	Uh huh.

aa	No.	sd	the State of Texas, for example, you know, may execute somebody twice a year.

b	Right.	sv	and that's certainly no kind of deterrent,

sv	And you can, probably spend, a lot of time, or maybe eventually, just waiting it out,	b	yeah.

sv	and that's where a lot of aggravation comes, I think, is, these guys spend so much time in the appeal process or just in the waiting process,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, the last I heard it was costing ten, twenty, thirty thousand dollars a year, to keep these guys waiting.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, this was her father, you know, that got killed, you know, just cold blooded murder, him and three other people,

bf	It sort of takes the justice out of the justice system.	aa	It does,

^2	It should be over and done with.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And she winds up being a victim, day after day after day.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	it's, it's ridiculous.

bf	She, She's an emotional victim .	aa	Yeah.

sv	And, you know, like you say, the cops that are out doing the work , day by day have got to have a lot of frustration when they see all their work, basically go out the window.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	so unless you've got something else, well,	b	Yeah.

fc	It's a pleasure talking with you.	fc	All right,

fc	good bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	I'm back on.	b	Okay.

qy	you say you watch evenings mostly?	sd	I watch evenings because I work all day.

b	Uh huh.	sd	mainly like ALL MY CHILDREN, that kind of thing.

qy	Do you have any that you like well enough that you tape them when you're not going to be there?	ny	Yes.

qw	Which ones?	sd	I tape THIRTY SOMETHING, and L A LAW.

b	Oh.	sd	Those are the two I like the best.

sd	Well, one they're taking, off.	sd	I know.

sd	we like L A LAW.	b	Uh huh.

sd^r	We like, that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm sorry they're breaking the team up, because we liked all the ones that were on there.	aa	I know.

sd	I'm not sure I like the new ones too much.	b	Huh uh.

sv	it looks like, it looks like it might be one of these seven or eight year run things. Where you kind of can spend your whole career on one show.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Alan Alda did it on MASH.	aa	I know.

qy	So do you mostly like like a story type of thing that lasts an hour?	ng	I don't usually like stuff that continues.

^2	In one hour, like QUANTUM LEAP.	aa	Yeah.

sd	That's one of our favorites .	b	Yeah.

sd	which they do at the beginning of the season, to grab your attention. You know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	that's always a bummer too.	aa	I know.

sv	Sometimes it's better just to tape record both of them and then watch it all in one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I'll, mostly I'm into it for relaxation,	b	Yeah.

sd	That type of show is what we what, we watch.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you seen that?	nn	Huh uh.

sd	but it's like dummies and things, that are used,	b	Uh huh.

sd	But there's always a moral to each story.	qw	And what night is it on?

sd	but, the son in laws get to throw the mother in laws when they're seventy five over a cliff .	ba	great.

sd	and then when it comes time for him to throw her over, well, the teenaged son the night before tried to save her by hiding her.	b	Oh.

sv	it's real funny that they give the teenagers as the one that questions, what's going on.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so, in the end he doesn't throw her over,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they call it the night of the howling, or something like that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	he thought it was not ...	br	So he didn't go howl?

sd	so all the people that worked with the father ostracized him .	ba	how funny.

sd	and there's always, like I say, a moral to it	qy^d	It's just a half hour,

sd	Well, half hour.	b	Oh.

sd	that's all there is to it.	sv	There's not many half hour shows,

sd	it, they, they're trying to liken the father in there of the teenage son to like JACKIE GLEASON SHOW. the way he talks to his mother in law and so forth,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I guess mostly I like the news shows too, the news magazines, like SIXTY MINUTES or TWENTY, TWENTY or PRIME TIME LIVE or something like that, you know, all of those shows, if I can do it,	b	Yeah,

sd	but my husband likes to watch, old movies, especially war movies, or, sports, which I'm not,	sd	see, I like sports.

sd	and I like, gymnastics, and some track and field,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I just don't have that much time to sit and watch the whole thing.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	or, you know, I always have, letter writing,	b	I know.

sv	that's something that comes from your old age, you know.	b	No,

^q	Idle hands are the devil's workshop .	aa	I know.

b	No.	sd	That's why I don't get to watch that much.

b	Right.	sd	I do okay, because the kids are all in bed,

b	Right.	sd	Or like at six thirty I'll watch WHEEL OF FORTUNE or something like that.

sd	We don't watch it unless they're here .	b	Uh huh.

sv	That's something I didn't think that we'd ever do .	qy	Did you send one?

sd	he's, he wouldn't let us pull it,	ba	How funny.

ad^t	Push my number.	b^m	Okay.

sd	but I don't actually play golf.	sd	Well, I'm the same way.

bf	Hack it all over the place?	aa	Yeah.

qy^g	It's sickening, isn't it?	sd	well, in the Carolina's it's just, you know, we've got a bunch of golf courses around here.

qy^d	I guess that's a good question?	sd	well, I mean I'm not a serious golfer at all,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, I like watching it on T V.

sd	I like that too.	o@	 Well, I, I, if I can hit a great deal like, they, my friends

sd	and then I got worse again	sd	to get me they say I hit worm burners because I can't hit it up in the air.

b	Yeah.	sd	So I'm pretty bad

ba	That's pretty good.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm going to do it right, and see if I can actually play this game or not.	sv	Well, I guess that's what I need to do is get some kind of lessons or something.

sv	and I think I'm doing all fine	sd	Just walking around the hollow and making sure there's not really,

b	Yeah.	sd	See how it's going to break or whatever.

qy	Can you really see it though?	ny	Yeah.

qw	What about the speed?	sv	if you get down on the ground you really can.

qy	no , but can you tell how fast you're going to hit it?	sd	well, you know if it's up on a slope that you've got to hit it not kill it

qy	but you can feel that?	ny	Yeah.

sd	Now I'm T V watching.	b	Yeah.

sd	They make you die at the hole every time.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	it's hard for me.	sd	it's like I said

bf	Once you're there, you're all set though.	aa	I'm all set.

ad	and you put it in.	aa	that sounds good to me.

sd	And me it takes me five to get there and five to get it in.	sd	Well, it, it usually takes me about probably two or three to get it there

ba	That's good.	sd	But the friends I play with, they play all the time

bf	Joe Pros?	ar	they're not Joe Pros

qy^d	For eighteen?	ny	Yeah.

sv	that's pretty good.	b	Yeah.

sv	Your shitty golf is probably the best golf I've ever seen.	ar	No,

sd	but it ain't going to happen.	sd	Well, teeing off I either slice it

ad^t	Well why don't you start cause it said I was suppose to ask you what do you,	qy	Do you have any elderly relatives currently in an, nursing home now?

sd^e	I do.	bh	Do you?

ba	my gosh.	sd	She'll be a hundred and three in August.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we decide not to put her in a nursing home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	even though she is a hundred and two, she still has all of her faculties.

b	Right.	sd	She still has her snap.

b	Right.	sd	I have seen them in the,

b	Yeah.	sv	I still think it is worth it if you had a good nursing home

sd	It was getting where she was getting dangerous. I mean letting strangers in and things like this,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then } she's got a lot of family there and that go and see her all of the time	ba	well that's good.

sd	but she has adjusted beautifully.	ba	that is great.

sd	I'd be very uncomfortable with him being in Colorado.	b	why yeah.

sd	and doctor's are available if they need them.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Of course, I guess all nursing homes there is	sv	And the bad thing about it, before you can get any kind of government help, well you have to be a pauper.

b	Right.	sv	it takes every penny.

b	Right.	sv	And that's the sad part about it.

sd	so that's what would happen.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's unfortunate.	sd	I work at a brokerage firm

sd	and I don't know how our kids are going to take care of us. You know.	ba	I can't imagine.

b	Yeah.	sd	And everybody in my family has always had,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, my mother and my father are in their late sixties.

sd	and I don't know how he is ever going to get on his own the way things are.	b	I know.

sd	But you see these people in their seventies	b	but yeah.

sv	That's the problem.	sv	And that's the bad thing.

ny	Yeah.	bk	Okay.

sd	but today I went to see REGARDING WITH HENRY.	sd	I'm dying to see that.

sv	It was really good.	b	Oh.

sd	Jeff Wariner just got out of the hospital	b	Uh huh .

sd	and everyone enjoyed it.	ba	my goodness.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	and I said, ooh, I want to see it so bad.

sd	Well, my son had gotten to see a lot of movies this summer, on, choir tour and visiting friends and one thing and another. A lot of the ones I had wanted to see	b	Oh.

sd(^q)	and so since he had this friend up from Houston, and his friend had already seen so many and I thought they decided on this and I thought well, I want to see this one, too.	b	Yeah.

sd	finally, it's my first summer movie .	ba	my.

b	Yeah.	sd	And when I go, I go see two at a time.

qy	was that good?	sv	hysterical.

sd	I love comedies.	b	Yeah

sd	But, that's what I was ,	sd	that's the other one that we went to that night.

bh	was it?	sd	And, my face hurt so bad, from laughing because I love Billy Crystal.

sd	I'm glad to hear that because they,	aa	they are

b	Uh huh .	sv	they just carried it off, to the tee.

qy^d	Well, I don't know if you got to see WEEKEND, AT BERNIE'S that was out a couple of year's ago.	nn	No.

sd	They had a free showing at the Berkeley, United Artist.	ba	How neat.

sd	but we thought we'd try it, you know, free movie.	fe	Shoot,

sd	I mean, we hurt by the time we came out.	b	yeah.

sv	or it should be out on T V, I would think,	aa	Yeah,

sd	Especially in the theater it was contagious, you know	b	Yeah.

sv	I imagine the way SOAPDISH was, but, with everyone laughing.	ba	gosh

sd	Well, I'm glad you did that before your surgery .	sd	me too, because I don't even know if I could live through it now.

b	Yeah .	sd	I mean I'm getting around real good

b^r	Yeah.	sd	And today I, course I went back to work two weeks after,

ba	gosh.	sd	but see I don't have permanent work.

b	Oh.	sd	so I went up to do WordPerfect cause that seems like that's what everybody wants,

b	Yeah.	sd	And then they called me to see if I wanted to work a day.

b	Yeah .	sd	And, you know, he was teasing me

b^r	Yeah .	sd	And so, I'm real glad that we didn't go see those funny ones when I'm still sort of on the sore side.

b^r	Yeah .	qw	well, what's your next,

sd	and to try and find time it's hard, with Jim's schedule, too, just to get a time that we can both go.	b	yeah.

sd	And, I'm holding out for CITY SLICKERS for the two of us because, we had friends that went to see that and said, you know, it's just perfect for our age group	b	Uh huh.

sd	but some of the different things we're doing, there's just not enough time to do it all	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and he said, well, realistically , You know, he knew he couldn't get them all in.	b	Yeah.

sd	but the fire scenes and the dra , you know that action part is fantastic.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but h but he enjoyed it	bh	really?

b	And yeah,	sd	Supreme.

sd	I really, like him a lot. Which is why, DANCES WITH WOLVES was the last movie we had seen for several months	b	Uh huh.

sd	We were going to sit through it again cause we really wanted him to see it, too.	b	yeah.

sd	And I really enjoy Harrison Ford which is one of the reasons I wanted to see,	aa	I do, too.

sv	That's not an easy part to play, I don't think .	aa	I wouldn't think.

sv	that one won't your sides .	ba	Good .

qy	was this the first time you got to see ONE HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIANS?	sd	my parents took me when I was probably somewhere between Ashley and Jamie's age .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we went to the,

sd	or maybe it was thirty dollars to do it	qy^d	Just to pack the bearings?

sd	And then I can decide whether I want them to do it or whether I can do it, see.	b	Right.

sv	and I thought that was a good deal.	b	Right.

sv	So those small little trucks and cars like that, the longevity of the brake pads is really good.	sd	You know, they've gotten to the point that they don't weigh very much

sv	I, I keep it that way because that is the key to the longevity.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my experiences have been kind of contrary to that.

b^r	oh.	sd	I get a little more involved in the maintenance of my car

b	Okay.	sd	and one of the things that I did was to change the pulley system on it to use under drive pulleys so that the engine doesn't have to turn the accessories and can use more of the power to the rear wheels

b	Uh huh .	sd	the only catch was the first set of under drive pulleys that I put on it were, not even cast aluminum.

qy^d	You're talking about the vibration dampener?	^h	Well, there's three pulleys that you change.

bk	Okay.	sd	So, when I changed those over, I put on these pressed aluminum things

ba	Uh, oh.	sd	So in the process of seizing, the belt spun on the pulley and wore through the water pump pulley almost all the way. But not far enough to notice.

ba	Uh, oh.	sd	So, I was on my way to work one day

fp	Hello?	fp	Hello.

fp	How you doing?	fp	Fine.

sd	I'm over here in Plano, Texas.	b	Okay.

na	sure.	bk	Okay.

b	Oh.	b	Okay.

qw	or where are you at?	sd	Arlington.

b^m	Arlington.	aa	Yes.

sv	Well, there's a lot of stuff going on in Arlington these days.	aa	Yes,

qy	Are you involved in any of that?	nn	No.

b^m	No.	nn^r	No,

qy	now, do you work?	sd	I'm going to school right now.

bh	you are?	co	I can tell you about my last job or whatever you want to talk about that or my husband's or what I think.

b	Yeah.	sd	I've got a lot of,

sd	Because I work for myself	b	Uh huh.

sd	I miss, insurance and the steady paychecks that come.	b	Yes.

bh	is that right?	sd	go to work when I wanted to or not

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, you know, the benefits weren't there.

sd	I own part of a roofing company.	bh	do you?

sd	in the Dallas, Fort Worth area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, you know, unfortunately we were part of a bigger company	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and I do miss that. You know,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, on the other hand, I, I enjoy having the time that I have with my family and being able to, you know, work when I want	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I'm the only one that's being insured

bh	is that right?	sv	so it's kind of,

b	Yeah.	sv	and the way medical expenses are I think that's probably one of the biggest benefits you need to have.

sd	that is the single most benefit that I enjoyed, and I do miss	b	Right.

sv	and it is unbelievable how much you have to pay for it.	aa	It's out of sight.

b	And, yeah,	sd	Even at a group rate, I couldn't believe how much is our,

sd	and if you want to add dental to it, I mean, that's that eats even more.	b	Right,

sd	I guess the other benefits that I, that I miss, I guess is, you know, some of the bonuses and stuff that that goes on with just being involved with a big company, you know	b	Uh huh.

sv	and course, these days, you can't count on that because	b	Right.

sd	you know, I feel bad for the people that are involved in that, G M deal there in in Arlington	b^r	Right.

sv	and I'm sure it will be, you know, quite a few people are affected by that	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	They were paid that whole time

bh	really?	ny	Yes,

bh	Is that right?	sv	I really believe they have done this to themselves, in a way, because of the unions being so stocked.

aa	yeah.	sd	And right now, anybody's that's laid off from G M will have a full year's paycheck.

bh	Is that right?	sv	Plus probably an additional six months through the worker's stuff that they have at, through the company

b	Yeah.	sd	but I don't feel as sorry for them,

sv	really the ones it's going to hurt is actually the businesses around in that area.	aa	Yes.

sv	You know, that's the ones that that that's going to hurt because they depend on that,	sv	But I think there's a case, where benefits have gotten,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	and it made the prices of cars go up

b	Uh huh.	sd	we, I believe in unions,

sd	Well, I'll tell you, I I've had my fill of unions .	sd	I mean, I can't make eighteen dollars an hour.

qo	Well, Michael, what do you think about, funding for AIDS research?	sd	Well, that's something I've thought a lot about.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I work in a hospital.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And I've worked in the hospital for fifteen years

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	when they asked us did we want to, keep it the same or, spend more, spend less, I think I think right now what they're spending is adequate. for my personal opinion. because I think it's something that's going to take them a while to come up with a, vaccine for.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	I don't think it's going to be that easy to come up with

b	Yeah.	sv	or I think they already would have by now, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sv	so I don't know if spending a lot more money would really make any difference right now.

b	Uh huh.	qo	And, what about you?

sd	Well, I guess I'm not too aware of how much they're spending right now . You know.	sd	I'm not either.

b	Yeah.	sd	that's something I've never really kept up with at all.

b	yeah.	sd	I don't, I'm not sure,

ad	go ahead.	sd	I know, I've always thought more about the disease rather than the research,

b	Yeah.	sd	if we were talking about the money, I'd just have to say what they're spending is probably enough, simply because I don't know that much about it. You know .

sv	I mean, I can see that research is needed	b	yeah.

aa	Definitely.	aa	I think so,

sv	I mean it's becoming a major problem.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, I guess the area that I think more about is I would like to see them focus on, preventing it, in more, You know.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	It's it's, abstinence in certain cases	aa	No.

b	Yeah.	sd	Myself, I'm or about to, get a divorce

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, course, I'm not all ready to just run out there and start dating everybody I can or anything.

b	Yeah.	sv	But, it's sort of scary to find yourself single again, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, because you never know what's going to happen .

b	Yeah.	sd	Course, it's not that I'm wanting to, I'm not going to want to go and have sex with everybody I see.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But it's something you got to think about these days.

b	Yeah.	sd	A single person. You know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I mean, it certainly changed my attitude about that in a hurry.

sv	I think for a lot of people it has.	aa	Certainly.

b	Yeah.	h	And, I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know it, sort of doesn't address the problem of drug addiction .

b	Yeah.	sd	It just sort of keeps that going.

b^r	Yeah.	h	But, I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	h	so, I don't know,

b^r	Uh huh.	h	I don't know,

^h	boy that's a hard issue .	o@	* this "it" needs separate slash mark because B.108 is an "aa" with A.107, not necesarily the original intended continuation of this utt It really is.

aa^r	It really is.	aa^m	It really is.

sv	well someone who's not ready to give up drugs, You know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	If they're perpetrating the AIDS problem, passing that on to each other, then you know,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I don't know.

b	Yeah.	sv	so I guess you just have to take the two problems and see which is worse. Which is the most important to solve at the time

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know.

b	Yeah.	sd	but I've never looked into how much money they're spending.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I know a lot of our tax money goes to that.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I really have never looked into it.

sd	I've heard, you know, different voices speaking up and saying we're not spending enough	b	Yeah.

sd	and, Mostly that's what I've heard,	b	Right,

h	so I don't know,	b	Yeah.

sv	And, yet, I know it sounds like big money to me .	aa	Yeah

sv	But it probably takes a lot.	aa	I think it is.

qy	Did you have any fear working in the hospital with that,	ng	That's one thing I've never really feared.

bk	Uh huh.	sd	a lot of my family, you know, they fear me working like that and, under some of those conditions,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I work in the operating room a lot

o	Okay.	qo	So how serious is the, subject of crime in your area?

sd	for example, the, local high school, they've already found two students with sawed off shotguns	ba	Jeez.

sd	and they're starting to, get these hand held metal detectors so they can inspect the kids every morning when they come to school, of all things.	sd	Well, luckily, it hasn't gotten that bad here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	San Jose actually has a pretty good record in terms of being relatively low on violent crime.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it's on the uprise, especially in a lot of the, outlying agricultural towns. because you end up having a lot of gangs forming, largely around the Hispanic core.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it seems to be that, gang warfare follows very rapidly on the heels of poverty conditions.

sv	That's how they bind themselves together in groups, I guess	b	Yeah.

sv	interestingly enough, I don't think we have here, a lot of gangs, but, only a couple, of, not a whole large group of them, but, just a few. Most of them centered around, drug territory.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And so they're protecting their economic interests, I guess.	b	Yeah .

sd	and then as you get out of the car, they just, step up and, take the keys off of you and drive the car away and leave you standing in front of your house.	ba	Well, that's efficient.

sd	They just wait for you to show up after they've picked out which one they want.	sv	They're decided they're completely unworried about being identified or anything of that sort.

sd	off they go with your car.	ba	Wow.

sd	I think they call it car jacking around here .	aa	Yeah,

sd	and my wife's from Florida	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's, really scary sometimes.	b	Yeah,

sv	And it's pretty bad when they're using metal detectors in school	b	Uh huh.

sv	and that's what's causing all the killing.	sd	Well, there's a couple of things that I've heard,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	course the reason that these kids tend to turn toward the drugs and everything else seems to be just, you know, the, the end results of poverty and parents that aren't doing any parenting and everything else

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	because, I mean, you know, the parents aren't making a living at anything.

sd	And they see all their friends and neighbors,	sv	And they're accidental parents half the time anyway.

sv	and, I think, to a large extent, they don't understand the concept that what they're doing is actually illegal because this is the way they were raised.	sd	It's illegal,

sv	and they they say, well, it's the law that's, got to be changed instead of their way of life,	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm glad it's not the kind of problem I have to come up with an answer to because it's not easy.	sv	Well I think that the drug thing would actually be relatively easy to solve in terms of an actual solution to the problem.

b	Uh huh.	sv	the social, the other social problems wouldn't go away.

sv	They've always been with us.	sd	and I used to think that this whole argument was completely bogus,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	and prohibition didn't stop it and didn't do anything really to slow,

qw	What is your, community, currently doing with regard to recycling?	sd	basically, they're just, having various recycling, bins, located for, trash pickup.

sv	and, they're not, too inclined to do something as aggressive as that .	sd	live in an apartment complex.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they only have one set of recycling bins, one or two sets as opposed to a set at each of the dumpsters.

sv	That type of thing.	b	Right.

sv	But, people need to be more conscious of it.	sd	and a lot of people are against it.

sv	And that's the big thing, I think, that they try to promote.	b	Right.

sv	I think that's what they need to do. Be more proactive like that.	sd	I believe it was last year that they actually collected the old phone books.

sd	because they don't degrade over such a period of time.	sv	Well, part of the problem with recycling them in the past has been the covers are made with a clay based paper.

b	Yeah.	sd	They contain the glue and stuff

b	Yeah.	sd	Now I think they've come up with some way of, pulling the glue out.

qo	And, how about you ?	sv	Well, I think that in some cases, it is warranted.

aa	yep.	sv	I think in some cases it doesn't matter if it's a deterrent or not.

sd	you still have to do it.	sd	I mean I mean, I'm thinking of an extreme case like a serial murderer

bf	So you're in favor of capital punishment, then.	aap	Well, for some things.

b	Right.	sv	I think for serial murder it is warranted because if a person who would do something like that in cold blood,

sv	Needs to be punished or, eliminated from society.	sv	I mean, you can't guarantee that they wouldn't escape from prison and do it again.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I don't think that rehabilitation is effective.

sv	it's a difficult, problem, isn't it, to determine how you're going to punish somebody for a particular crime,	sv	But, then, you know, I think that some murderers don't really warrant capital punishment. You know, like, for example, you know, you hear about cases where women have killed their husbands who abused them

b	uh huh.	sv	and I don't think, that would really warrant capital punishment.

qy^d	It was almost really self defense, isn't it, in a case like that.	na	, it is to a certain extent

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I think,

sd	I know they put them in jail sometimes, I guess.	sv	I think in s ,

sv	That's kind of drastic punishment.	sv^m	Well, I think that would be kind of drastic punishment.

sv	Might make you feel better	sv	But, one thing, I think that if there is a chance for rehabilitation then that chance should be investigated.

b	Right.	sv	But, like I said, if someone is just pathologically going to murder people no matter what then I think they should be eliminated from society.

sv	There's a lot of folks, probably, that are in prison that aren't really a danger to society,	^2	And a lot of people that are a danger to society that aren't in prison.

sd	I'm not sure what kind of, capital punishment we have here.	sd	Well, I know in North Carolina, we do have capital punishment.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm from South Carolina.

qy	are you working right now?	ny	yes,

qw	what kind of work do you do?	sd	I'm doing basically system design work and, implementation work for the speech group here.

qy^t	is that how you heard about this thing? .	ny	Yeah,

sd	I work at, the Georgia Tech Research Institute.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We don't really have any vacation or, you know, sick days or health care or anything really	b	Right.

aa^r	Exactly.	b	Yeah.

qo	What about you?	sd	Well, i , I'm research stuff here now

sv	and I think that, they might, you know, pay for that. Pay for the classes and stuff	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, they'll let you work halftime if you want to finish,	bf	If you want to, do it quickly.

sv	so that will probably help out.	b	Uh huh,

o@	But, Do you get any kind of health care type stuff?	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it's kind of split between C M U and, and, you know, the employee.

sv	but it would definitely be something to look into once I get my own.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's a whole other topic to begin with too

sd	I'm learning and stuff because, I'm you know, in school.	b	Right.

sd	But there's some weird law where, student employees working for the government don't have to pay Social Security tax.	b^r	Right.

sd	Though that's about, five percent right there	sv	Now that's a big win.

sv	That's about the only real bonus	b	Yeah.

sd	so I have to take that into consideration when I evaluate like how much I get paid real, you know, because if I was working somewhere else I'd have to, you know, pay an extra five percent, or so.	b^r	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	well if you could call it a benefit that C M U, I mean i ,

bh	yeah?	sd	so that kind of helps out in terms of, you know, keeping up to date with contacts in industry.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, in case, you know, in case you ever need to bail out .

sd	we pretty much work from project to project well, you know, with different sponsors.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't think anybody pays too little.	aa	No,

qy	Do you get hit up for local taxes there?	ny	Yeah,

bf	so y , you get the whole smorgasbord.	aa	That's right

sd	Well, I actually live in New Hampshire tax free or die. Uh huh .	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	actually there's no sales tax in New Hampshire either.	br^m	There's no sales tax either?

sd^e	what there is, is very high property taxes because that's how they fund schools and everything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so they they hit me up for the five percent there.	b	Right.

sd	it's only a state tax here, no local.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We've got a five percent sales tax.	b	Right.

sd	But, the problem is that I'm paying state tax even if I don't live here.	b^r	Right.

sd	But, at least on things like stock options and things like that, they don't tax me.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So that's not too bad.	aa	No,

sd	I mean, I, I'd consider twenty percent lucky because I mean, you know, when you figure out just on feds, you know, I actually hit the thirty one bracket this year, which was no fun.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and also, you know, then you figure out seven or eight percent for F I C A which is taxes where you,	b	Uh huh.

sv	most people forget about them, because you know, you can't always get your F I C A back at the end of the year.	b^r	Right.

sd	so, you know, and then, you know, like a five percent surtax, I'm paying forty percent tax.	b	Yeah,

sv	and you need you n , you know,	b	Right.

sv	I think government does a better space program than you're going to get out of private individuals,	b^r	Right.

sv	but, you know, I think, you know, you look at things like, you know, tax subsidies to tobacco farmers because Jesse Helms wants it that way	b^r	Right .

sv	or, You know, and, and just tremendous amounts of, you know,	aa	That's right,

sv	so much of it, is now just going to service debt or you know, is going into, into programs that, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that a lot of the H E W services, although they're providing necessary services, have too much fat in them.	aa	Right.

sv	I think it's all going into bureaucrats.	aa	Right,

aa	yeah.	aa	Right ,

sd	The great communicator,	sd	I mean, I just read something that, two thirds or three quarters, I'm not exactly sure of our national debt was created during the Reagan Bush era who are supposedly fiscally conservative.

^q	Congress, they're the fault for it.	b	Right .

sd(^q)	because like in New Hampshire, they say, all right, let's cut the military budget.	b^r	Right.

sd	then, you lose half your jobs in New Hampshire	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're not contributing taxes.	aa	That's right.

sv	So, you know, it's very hard to say, you know, this is what we should cut.	aa	Yeah,

aa	yeah.	sv	So that's really,

sd	this, this guy both for our school district meeting and our town meeting had this proposal which, unfortunately violates New Hampshire constitution for our local town to have people line item their taxes.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Course, the only problem with that is then nobody paying for the necessary services they don't use.	aa	That's right.

qy	do you want to go ahead	na	sure.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And so I've seen a lot of like rallies and things like that.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	So, you know, you pick up some traits from her and stuff.

b	Right.	sd	but, you know, I believe in like sharing and doing things for each other.

sd	and they're all married.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I love seeing the men help the women so much.	b	Right.

sv	I think it's great.	aa	me too .

aa^r	That's right.	b	Yeah.

sd	If they did that, you know.	b	Right.

sv	And a big thing that I see. most of the women getting married now, have gone back to, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they stay at work or go back to work. Or whatever.	b	Right.

sv	And they're well educated.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They're having a fit about how little there are.	b	Oh.

qy^g	And I think we'll see a lot more. Don't you? Of upper management? Then we do now, even.	ny	yeah.

sv	I think it'll escalate.	b	Yeah.

sd	in fact I work at a high school.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and the ethnic thing you know, is a good thing now.	aa	me too.

sv	so you're going to see a lot more of that in leadership I believe.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh. Right.	sd	And it's just too bad that some people, you know, still look down on them just because of their color. You know.

sv	That's a shame.	sv	Especially black women.

^q	But they wouldn't know what they're doing.	b	Right.

sd	But I'm not big on subserving as far as to the men at all.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So that was good.	aa	Right,

sv	So I think that's good. To keep the equal as far as, not, nex , necessarily by sex type thing. You know.	aa	Right.

sv	And I think the, attitude is a lot better towards the parents raising the younger ones now.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	You see a lot more of the mothers and all saying to the young girls, you know you can do it.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	If he can do it, you can do it type thing.	b	Yeah.

qo	What about politics on it?	b	Oh.

qy	Do you think the political scene?	^h	I'm not that big on politics.

sv	and I really think we should have more political leaders in the women than we do and even for President and Vice President this year,	aa	yeah.

sd	I forget her name now.	sd	I don't know .

qy	But you know who I mean?	ny	Yeah,

sd	And their tax deal and,	b	Yeah.

b^r	Right.	sv	So that's good.

sd	I didn't see any of the women in there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And that disappoints me.	b	Oh.

sv	Schroeder's about the biggest one in Washington.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Well, have you ever served on a jury?	nn	No,

sd	and then I was not chosen.	sv	Well, I was, originally chosen primarily, I think, because I was a young fellow

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

qo	Well, could you give me an example of a case where you think that?	sv	Well, in a criminal case, say one in which, you know, there is, like, say assault or some such. I think there ought to be a unanimous, vote because by law and by constitution there must be proven beyond a shadow of a reasonable doubt that the person in question did this.

qy	are you just trying to say that criminal cases are more, tangible	ny	Yeah,

qy	Well, do you think that in a civil case, if there was majority rule, that it would be easy for someone to be set up?	^h	well, I really can't say for certain, truth be known.

sd^e	I'm not.	sd	A, fellow when he was much younger, was tried and convicted and sentenced to death.

sv	Well, I mean, I think that there are many cases in our judicial system where justice is not served.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and I also think, just like you were talking about before, why you were chosen to be on a jury that, just, the process of picking jurors is not always objective.	aa	certainly not,

qy	You want to go first? .	nn	No,

sd	one of the things they talked about was, d , wh , what do we think about a judge making the decision?	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't think that they could be objective in every case, every time.	b	Right.

qy	you know what I mean?	na^r	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	there's no way.

b	Right.	sv	one man, one woman can never be objectionable in every case.

aa	That's it.	sd	every person has their opinions

sd	I mean, if you go to a trial by jury and especially if a person has confessed. If they have been caught, you know, point blank in the crime. There's, no question	b	Right.

sv	I mean, you know, we've gone through this over and over again.	aa	Right.

sd	And it can go on for ten, twenty, years.	b	Yep.

sv	I think this is a little ridiculous.	b	Uh huh .

sv	I think the only people who benefit from that are the lawyers.	aa	that's right.

sv	And I think that the lawyers have caused a lot of the problems that exist in the criminal system today. With plea bargaining.	b	Right.

b	Well.	sv	Plea bargaining is something completely different.

sv	but you know, they get lesser sentences	b	Right.

sd	and I understand that the jails are full of people, you know, and that they have to do something.	b^r	Right.

sd	That we don't have, well a lot of states don't have capital punishment.	b	Right.

sv	And, I think they should.	sd	We do .

sv	and I think if a person is guilty of taking someone's life and like you say, it's, there's no doubt whatsoever. Like drunk drivers that kill people	b	Right.

sv	and they should pay for it with their life.	b^r	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	We just have the case,

ny	Uh huh.	sd	his last appeal was denied two days before his sentence was up .

b	Oh, really.	sd	So, I mean, his appeal was denied

b	Yeah.	sv	But, that was absurd .

qw	what would you do to change it? To make it better?	sd	the, appeal procedure is the only thing I can possibly think of.

sv	I mean burned out.	aa	exactly.

sv	There's there's no possible way that you could, you know, feel good about yourself.	aa	Exactly.

sv	If you had to do something like that, day after day.	sv	No one would want the job .

aa	Not really.	sd	and, you know, like I said, you know, everyone has their opinions about every case.

qy	Well, do you think people should have a trial is they're caught dead to rights like,	ny	yeah.

sd	I mean, supposing I come up to you and I just point blank kill you.	qy	Well, I mean, were there witnesses?

bf	In other words you're saying that, you have to find out whether it's premeditated or what the circumstances were.	aa	Right.

aa	Yeah.	sd	I mean you could have fifty people in audience watching a murder take place

b^r	Yeah.	sv	and you'd still, there's still mitigating circumstances .

qy	are you on any kind of, regular exercise plan?	ny^e	I, yeah, I'm, yeah, I, I do aerobics, step classes and, toning classes,

br^m	Step classes?	ny	yes.

qw	What's that?	sv	it's a new, form I think,

o@	and ... okay.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	I probably couldn't do that because of my knee .	b	Uh huh,

aa	Yeah.	sd	and, I do toning a lot and, some,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm not too great at it

sd	I guess what I do now is I play softball, right now,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it's four nights a week.	ba	Gosh .

sd	But, so I enjoy it	b	Uh huh.

sd	instead of having to join a health club and make myself go out there, I went and bought a weight bench, and don't ever hardly use it.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	I need to make myself do that.	b	yeah,

qw	What school you going to?	sd	I'm at East Carolina.

bk	Oh .	b	But, no,

qy	Is that lifting weights?	sd	It's, like isolated movements for certain muscles groups,

bk	okay.	sd	you can do with,

bf	Isometrics, stuff like that.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I know I'm looking forward to getting back into getting into shape,

sd	I played baseball, all the way through	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, working out six hours a day, usually six or seven days a week that kind of, kept us all in pretty good shape, .	aa	yeah.

sv	and, I guess the job that I'm in it's stuff to stay on any kind of a regular schedule. / * listen; possible typo stuff = tough?	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because I work some weird hours and do some traveling.	b^r	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know if your campus was anything like ours,

sd	and we had about, when I was there, maybe thirteen hundred people.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, it's pretty small.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	But I usually get in at least a couple of miles at work just walking around the plant.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's, fairly regular .	b	Yeah .

aa	Yeah.	sd	I, would like to start running.

qr^d	just, because you don't like to or because you won't be able to.	sd	, I'm afraid I won't be able to.

sv	if you do, if you do aerobics you shouldn't have any problem running.	b	Yeah.

sd	we ride our bike occasionally but again not nearly often enough .	b	Uh huh.

sv	you can't forget how to ride a bike.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	there are things I should do.

sd	and the next semester they were required to do weight lifting.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, we had it for course credit,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	but still, I mean, it was pretty high impact stuff, .	sv	Those aerobic classes are tough the high impact.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Definitely are tough classes.

sd	so she'd kind of lay it on occasionally, you know, .	b	Uh huh.

sd	eight o'clock in the morning, was our class.	b^r	Uh huh.

ad	Wake up.	sd	Well, now they have those exercise bands now that are better that you can use for like toning instead of using a weight,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you have like bands,

ny	Yeah.	sv	they're ... Yeah, they're, they're weird.

sd^e	I think my wife has some.	sv	you ge , they're just made of, I guess it's different kinds of rubber,

sv	so I guess it wouldn't be sand.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, those classes I enjoy.

qw	Well, what are you studying?	sd	I'm an interior design major, .

qy^d	, not in the, aerobic instructor type field.	b	Oh.

sv	I mean, they, they really know how to isolate each of the different muscle groups, with those things	b	Uh huh.

sv	to me that was just too much of a hassle to get all geared up and take the time to drive over there, and workout and then drive back .	b^r	Uh huh.

bf	A little negative reinforcement there while you're going.	aa	Yeah .

b	Yeah.	sd	Just to do, you know, some bicep, tricep exercises.

sd	that's where I'm really starting to get noticeable,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm just getting real soft in the middle.	aa	yeah,

sd	I guess I probably put on about nine or ten pounds, since I stopped playing, which was about four years ago.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I intend, I keep saying I intend to get back into it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I, I guess at that point it would turn into a task, ,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't consider it fun doing that,	b	Right.

b^m	Next weekend?	aa^m	Next weekend.

bk	All right.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sv	Makes you feel a lot better.

sd	when I was playing ball we could like run all day and not be tired, you know .	b	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Just that, you know, you don't feel guilty when you eat that cake after dinner, .

sv	but . That's a problem.	b	yeah,

fc	you too.	fc	Okay,

sv	I think that gets us off to discussing the topic for tonight.	^2	Which is movies,

na^m	That is correct.	bk	Okay.

qy	Are you a movie buff?	ny	yeah.

qw	What have you seen recently that you enjoyed?	^h	I don't know,

sd^e	I haven't.	sv	It's a kind of one of those psycho ones.

sd	Consequently, I don't like these psycho things.	sv	it's not too bad.

qy	do you have a V C R?	ny	Yes,

qy	Have you seen the movie CLASS ACTION with Gene Hackman?	nn	no,

sd	You know, it's one of those things.	b	Yeah,

sv	well, it's something that anyone can watch and enjoy.	sv	He's a good actor though.

br	Beg your pardon?	sv	Gene Hackman's a good actor. I think.

sv	he is.	qy	Do you see HOOSIERS?

sd	Saw it just again the other night, for,	b	Yeah,

bh	did you?	ny	Yeah.

qy	Have you seen the movie, CROSSING DELANCY?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I always feel so good when I get through with that movie.	b	Yeah,

qw	So, well what business are you in?	sd	I'm an electrical engineer.

bk	All right.	sd	I work in Massachusetts actually.

qy	So is everything going all right up there?	sd	it's only about, half an hour.

sd	Half an hour, we do that just going to downtown Dallas.	aa	That's right.

qy	are you a native of that part of the country?	ny	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	That one little spot in New Hampshire, we have ten miles of coastline,

qy	Did you have damage this year with hurricanes?	ng	Not up, where I live

qw	Well, what movies are you looking forward to seeing now?	^h	well, I'm only twenty seven years old

qy	Have you seen GREEN CARD?	sv	That would be pretty good.

sd	So I would recommend that if you have a chance.	sd	I'm in for it.

ad	Well if you can get GREEN CARD, go for it.	aa	All right,

qy	Have you seen that one?	ny	Yeah,

sd	But I hope you have a very Merry Christmas.	sd	You too.

sd	I'm looking forward to it.	sv	I think we're going to have a white Christmas up here just like the song says.

qy	So, do you think you get good coverage from the sources that you have?	nn	actually no,

qy	Do you watch a lot of T V to get the news then?	ng	I don't watch a lot of it,

sv	they might give you a little blurbs like this happened or that happened	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's recent material.	^2	And it's more in depth.

sd	It is the big events, not the little events.	b	Yeah.

sd	Not the fact that there was a big auto accident down on the corner of Broad and Main, you know.	aa	I know,

sv	or they're making time because they to fill in an hour's worth of news.	b	Yeah.

sd	I get kind of bored watching T V actually, when I watch the news on T V because it goes so slow	b	I know,

sv	and, then there's nothing that, you know, really is like so exciting.	b	Yeah,

sv	Listen to the news to hear the traffic report or something .	b	Yeah,

qw	I mean what, what do you find interesting versus what do you find boring?	sd	Well right now trying to keep abreast of, what's going on in Europe, you know, with all the, U S S R's satellites breaking off, trying to become independent and, you know, European community coming together.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That's going to affect our, economy quite a bit.

sd	I mean, it's only been, three months or something like that since that happened	b	yeah.

sv	But they like to tell us that it's going to be important .	sv	I'm pretty sure it is, because, once Europe becomes unified and, their economy becomes one big economy we're going to be, kind of hurting .

sv	we might also be helped, though, because it will be easier to do business over there, too.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and, I know of at least one company that specifically went over there and established a presence before nineteen ninety two so that they would have it when it came time.	b	yeah

sv	But getting in after nineteen ninety two is more difficult.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yes.	b	Yeah.

sv	even amongst themselves, they're being somewhat protectionist, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	and they've all got their own reasons which have to be resolved yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm sure within those people's minds, it's quite justified.	b	Yeah,

^2	Before they open up their borders to everyone.	aa	Yeah,

qy	do you watch anything like with sports or anything like that?	^h	Actually I'm not really into sports.

bf	Against your will.	aa	Yeah,

sv	being a former drug user . I, I guess I have to say at this point, that I do approve of it.	fe	Whoa.

sd	because I know that, in using drugs I was not a good employee.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	b , you are also under their liability, under the Workmen's Comp.	b^r	Uh huh.

o@	and, I work for a tire company Modern Tire.	qw	Where do you work?

sd	and that's where most of our, injuries occur.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Then he's automatically, given a drug test.	b	Right.

sd^e	when he goes to the doctor the first time.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know if it's been a deterrent or not, because we have, just started using it for the past year or so.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They haven't pursued it, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he went to a separate drug testing firm,	b	Yeah.

sv	So I think the tests themselves are not really that cut and dried, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	And then I also had a friend who was just around some people that were smoking cocaine.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	Now then you always wonder, well is he just saying that .	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think they should.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm a T I employee

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	some of the places now, like I B M don't allow them smoking, you know in the plant.

b	Right.	sd	we have designated smoking areas.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I work in sort of a building that's not really, well

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, they have designated smoking,

b	Yeah.	sv	and I think that's bad.

sv	because you're endangering everybody's lives if you if it's something like that.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I was giving my boss a hard time because I kept waiting for my name to come up, you know,

ba	You're kidding .	b	No .

qy^g	The executives, right?	na	Right,

qy^d	The executives?	ny	Uh huh.

qy	Wouldn't that be awful if you were if you were using, and lose your job and everything.	sv	Which I thought was interesting .

sd	like I say, I'm a former drug user,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so I don't use drugs any more.	qw	what kind of drugs did you use, if you don't mind?

sd	marijuana, cocaine and amphetamines.	ba	Wow!

sd	And all on the job, too.	bh	Really?

sd	You know, it had gotten that bad.	sv	Well, it's really lucky that you got away from that.

b	Really,	sv	Cause that's really, downward spiral.

sd	And I was losing jobs just from doing a poor job, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, you know, there's all kinds of drawbacks, much less the drug testing.	b	Yeah.

aa	that's right.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	Plus, you know, you want to think that you're working with people who are not only putting out their fair share, but that are not endangering your life,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	like, my husband, several years back, worked for Motorola.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And they had, you know,

ba	goodness.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	like they have emergency shower where you just run in there and strip off and dump water, you know, that kind of thing.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	And they had people out there using all sorts of drugs handling those chemicals.

ba	my gosh.	sv	And that's really frightening.

b	Yeah.	sv	So I think some you know, places like that, it should be like mandatory like, you know, on a, on a greater frequency than maybe, just, you know, paper pushers like I am.

sv	I would think there would be.	sv	well you'd think so

qy^d	But they weren't?	no	I don't know if they do it till yet.

sv	Isn't that awful.	sd	Because when he was at,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I forgot what,

b	Yeah.	sd	And at that time, they had no testing whatsoever.

sd(^q)	And she said, he's the supervisor of this chemical land fill, you know where they go and dump all this toxic stuff.	ba	Lord.

sd(^q)	And I just, you know, went, where? .	b	Yeah,

sd	Let me move as far away as possible.	b	Ooh.

b	Yeah,	ba	That's awful.

sd	and back then it was popular you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but people have really you know, become wise about drugs	b	Yeah.

sv	and they really have a good campaign for the young people, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so. So, I guess it was just a generational thing.	b	Yeah.

sv	and that's good.	b	Uh huh,

sv	That's the best way to stop it.	aa	Yeah,

sv^t	well, I think we did it.	b	Okay.

fc	So it's good talking to you.	fc	Well, I enjoyed talking to you, Cathy.

qw	So, who's your favorite team?	sd	My favorite team is the Pittsburgh Steelers.

br^m	Pittsburgh?	na	You bet.

sd	I used to be a big Pittsburgh fan when I was little.	sd	when John Stallworth played he was from my hometown in Alabama,

bh	really?	sd	so I kind of grabbed on to that team, way back when.

sd	I used to watch them a lot when they were playing the big iron curtain, or steel curtain.	aa	That's right.

sd	They just score just enough points,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I've been keeping up with the Saints a lot.	qy^g	Well, they are exciting, aren't they?

sd^e	the Saints are starting to impress me this year, you know, a lot.	sv	they are just a fun team to watch.

qy	Did you see the game Sunday night or, Sunday afternoon?	nn	 no,

sd	they ha , a fireworks display at halftime.	bh	yeah?

sd^e	and some paper or something in the Super Dome up in the roof caught on fire.	ba	you're kidding .

sd	So, they had to stop the game in lieu of the third quarter and put out this fire.	ba	my gos ,

sd	and they were dumping the Gatorade bucket and everything.	ba	I can't believe that.

sv	I mean, you just really can't tell what's going to happen.	ba	That's hilarious.

sd	It's like about two weeks ago I was watching the Saints.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And Morton Anderson kicked a sixty yard field goal.	b	Oh.

sd	And it was beautiful, right down the middle.	ba	boy.

aa	Yes.	qy	Well, do you think they're going to be able to make it this year, past the first playoff game?

sd	Right now I've got it narrowed down to the top four teams.	qw	Who's that?

sd	It's pretty much going between Washington. They are undefeated. And, Buffalo, New Orleans, and Chicago because Chicago has only lost twice	b	Right.

sd	Their only time they lost.	qo	What do you think about, Houston?

^h	I saw Houston play this summer in Memphis.	bh	yeah?

sd	and from what I saw the game Houston impressed me a lot.	b	Huh.

sv	and if that was an off night I'd hate to see when he's on a good night.	b	yeah,

sd	Haywood Jeffreys and Drew Hill and Allen ,	b	Right.

sd	they really impress me.	sd	Well, they squeaked out a game on Sunday.

qw	who did they play?	sd	They played Dallas.

aa	that's right,	sd	They won, in overtime.

sd	I remember that now.	sd	I watched that game

qy	Do you have a favorite between those two?	na	Well, because I'm right here in Dallas I kind of pull for Dallas.

bh	Really? .	ny	Yeah.

sd	but I hate Dallas .	sv	That's okay .

b	Yeah.	sd	and they just kind of grew on me.

sd	and they've actually started doing something.	b	Yeah.

qy	Well, do you know anything about the expansion teams they're thinking about bringing in?	^h	To tell you the truth I haven't paid too much attention to that.

bh	Really?	qw	what cities are they looking at?

sd	right now I think this Memphis, they're trying to get the teams.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And that's where I was when I saw, Houston play.	b	Uh huh.

h	but I'm not sure.	aa	You know, I think you are right.

bh	Think so?	sv	I think I remember hearing that.

sv	but I think it might be them.	sv	That would be fun.

sv	And right now I think it's Memphis and I think Baltimore have a really good shot at it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and when I went up there they were saying that Memphis sold more tickets than Saint Louis did.	bh	really?

qy	So, do you happen to be working for a large firm?	no	Well, it's about three hundred and fifty people.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they don't have any kind of pension plan where they contribute anything

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, they have a four O one K,

b	Uh huh.	sd	They don't add anything.

sd	It's got eight thousand people.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then the rest is whatever you want to put in. If you put more than that or something like that.	ba	that's a pretty good deal.

aa	It's not bad.	qw	Now, how long does it take for your contribution to vest?

sd	I'm sure it's not till like twenty five years, thirty years.	b	Yeah,

sd	Otherwise guess you can also put money, hold money back and then either use or lose it and that doesn't get taxed or can just have that money, you know, put in your paycheck.	b	Yeah,

sd	and ends up the best is to take a high deductible and take a loss, whatever it happens to be, if you happen to be a healthy individual .	b	Yeah,

bf	You mean, not even your, your car insurance?	sd	Well, it got all screwed up because I had a high deductible on the health insurance, no fault here,

by	that's too bad.	bd	well.

sd	I only get two weeks.	b	Yeah,

sd	We don't get them till your seventh year of service till you get an extra week.	ba	Aye.

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah,

sd	but now they don't.	qr	So you work for Bell or something like that?

sd^e	it's the Bell Corps, which is,	bk	Right.

b	Yeah.	b^r	Right.

sv	I think it's still based on the old model of,	^2	A lifelong job security

aa	Yeah.	^g	all that stuff,

sd	I don't think so.	b	Right.

sd	they're always laying people off, which is another benefit that you can have other than salary is trade that off for security.	qy	I mean, does it,

sd	And, I don't know what they do for those people.	br	Mean the, the management they get rid of?

qo	what do you think was different ten years ago from now?	sv	Well, I would say as, far as social changes go, I think families were more together.

b	Uh huh .	sv	they ate dinner at the table together.

b	Uh huh.	sv	although I'm not a mother, I still think that, a lot has changed since ten years ago.

sv	Well, actually ten years from today seems rather short.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I do agree that, generally society has sort of, let's see, rushed everything ahead.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I think that has a lot to do with economic situation.	aa	Yes.

sv	it's hard to say because I think people were busy ten twenty years ago too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm twenty eight.	b^m	Twenty eight.

b	Yeah.	sd	So there's maybe a five year gap between us.

sv	It's just a matter where priorities are, placed. And that, usually as far as families are concerned, there used to be just one person working and usually the other parent was home.	aa	Yes.

sv	And now, it's pretty much an economic necessity for most, in most places for both parents to work.	qy	Do you think it's an economic necessity

sv	But I do think,	qy	I mean do you think, people really need two cars and a house in the suburbs or,

sv	But then there are a lot of people that don't have that. But, that really do need to work.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And then } there, is that other group that is working to maintain a standard of living that, they think is surviving which is really more luxuries.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I tend to think that it's less those people that have the two cars and everything than it is the group that is just trying to survive.	qy^d	so you think it's,

sv	I'm saying that the group that is just trying to survive from day to day, where both parents are working is more of the majority than the people that have the higher standard of living.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Because if you look at economics across this country and statistics on who has the money and who the decreasing, middle class in this country I think that that's, in my opinion, the case.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean I have met people both that, that just want to maintain the standard of living and those that really need the job.	b	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sv	well I guess we're sticking more to social changes

b	Uh huh.	sv	and not all of those are necessities.

b	Right .	sv	So they're trying to,

b	Yes.	sd	the latest one I've seen, had to do with the, basically a manhunt,

ba	how awful .	sv	it was truly awful.

sd	I wonder how truthful all of that was or whether there was fiction.	b	Yeah,

aa	yes .	b	Yeah,

sd	the RAIN MAN was one.	sv	that was great one.

sd	and, and DRIVING MISS DAISY.	sd	I loved it.

aa	you need to see that.	b	Yeah.

sv	That is the most heart rendering story of relationships between two people. Two diametrically opposed people from the stand point that one was Jewish and one was black	b	Uh huh.

sd	and this all took place in the South.	ba	my.

sv	And, normally never the twain shall meet.	aa	You bet, especially in the South.

sv	The acting was phenomenal.	qy^g	Well as I recall it got some Academy Awards, didn't it.

sd^e	Jessica Tandy won best actress	b	yeah,

sd	it did.	b	Yeah.

sd	Just as RAIN MAN, with Dustin Hoffman, that was tremendous and Tom Cruise.	b	yeah,

sd	that was, what much of the hype was that Tom Cruise learned so much from Dustin Hoffman.	b	Yeah,

sd	and a good bit of that was filmed right in Cincinnati. Which is just forty five miles from where I actually live in a suburb of Dayton.	b	Oh.

qy	Isn't there a Kmart everywhere?	sv	that was so funny,

ny	Yes.	sd	He had to buy his underwear at Kmart.

aa	yeah.	sv	That was hilarious.

b	yes.	sd	and he was able to count the number of toothpicks just by a mental image.

b^r	yes.	sv	Unbelievable.

sd	Well, you know there are people, referred to as savants also, who can do most phenomenal things	b	Yeah.

sd	and everyone feels they are totally retarded.	b	Yeah,

aa	That's right.	sv	but, boy there's a lots going on in there .

sv	It's amazing .	b	Yeah,

aa	Yes.	sv	and then they balanced it with the wonderfulness of it, you know,

sv	and again it, I think was a picture of relationships.	b	Yeah.

sv	Again the relationship, between the two, that, never would have occurred, by accident.	aa	Right,

bh	Did you.	sd	I can tell you, so much about that movie, just because it really rang a lot of my personal background.

b	Yes.	sd	and then, you know, for, for no real, you know, direct reason, I guess, we get into, a really good relationship for a while and then, you know, back and forth

sv	it's good because it does make you think, about your own family.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And see it did bring out a lot of thoughts between you and your brother.	aa	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh .	sd	and, it was like pulling teeth to go get him to see it

sd	Well he at least saw it one time .	b	Yeah,

^2	Just think of what a phenomenal actor Dustin Hoffman is.	aa	Yeah.

sd	He will do that, to research it and to be able to mimic a person, with the kinds of problems that he had.	^2	And to make it believable.

aa	Yes.	sd	I mean I was believing it,

sv	Well, I'm sure everybody that saw it was believing it right along with them.	sv	He did great.

fc	Well it's just, been delightful talking with you.	fc	Yeah,

fc	but they're predicting some more snow for our direction.	fc	No,

fc	Bye, bye.	fc	Bye, bye.

sd	we have a Sheltie Collie, a miniature Sheltie.	bh	Do you?

sd	and we're having a difficult time trying to train it.	qw	How old is it?

sd	It's about six months.	sv	you're, you're in the roughest stages of pet ownership, I think.

sv	but I guess one one, one of them, or every once in a while, you get one that's not so intelligent because this one, it.	sv	Well. I don't know if that has anything to do with the intelligence, really, the, the training bit,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it was a sweet and an intelligent dog.

qw	what's the best method?	h	I don't know.

b	Right.	sv	They say that's not the way to do it now.

^2	Stand outside with them until they.	ar	No,

sv	so it's kind of difficult,	b	Yeah.

sv	and, you know, you don't want to spank it or scare it, or anything like that,	aa	No,

sd	and, you know and then it runs right inside	qy	does it just want to sniff around?

sd@	and it does it. / * should be 2 utts; it appears that the "huh" is a br	qy	Does it just want to sniff around and play when it's outside?

sd	and you know, it won't it's little job outside	b	Yeah.

sd	and it comes inside.	qy	Have you praised it and given it a treat maybe when it does something outside?

sd	and, you know, there's certain spots in the house where he likes to go,	b	Yeah.

sv	but, you know, that's natural for a little puppy.	^2	That's nothing,

bh	really.	sd	so we're battling with that problem

ba	that's sad.	sd	and she still feels good.

qw	How old is it?	sd	She'll be sixteen in May.

ba	Man that's sad.	b	And yeah,

aa	of course not.	sd	so we're putting up with all her accidents,

sd	I couldn't.	sd	two nights ago, she had diarrhea,

sd	we try to, we're trying to take it on walks now, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we can't because it's not accustomed to being on a leash	b	Yeah.

sd	and you know, I mean, it's not even close to even being trained on a leash.	ba	Does it,

sv	they sometimes misuse their license or whatever you know,	b	Oh.

sv	they treat them bad.	sd	Well, you know, we went to the junior college, Richland

bh	really?	sd	and we took,

bh^r	really?	sv	and, it, it's a pretty good class,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, she didn't learn a lot,

qw	How long did it take?	sd	I think it was like a six week program.

br	Every, what?	sd	I think it was one night a week for like six weeks,

bh	really?	sd	and, you know, it was a group class, outside.

sv	unless they get used to something, they're really nervous	b	Yeah,

sv^e	and, if they're not accustomed to something, they're really scared.	sd	our friend has a,

sd^t	so I guess it starts recording now.	b	Okay.

sd	We live in the Saginaw area.	br^m	Saginaw?

sd	fact as far as I know, the school doesn't have any kind of programs or anything out here. or the grocery store or anything in this area,	bh	Really?

ny	yeah.	sd	we live in Plano

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you set it out

sd	and they took it, you know.	qy	did they, like on bottles, did they give you so many cents back for for cans

sd	and so I'm not really familiar.	b	Yeah.

qy	or, do you get money for it?	nn	No,

b	Oh.	sd	So you don't see too many thrown out around the streets. Or even bottles.

b	Really .	sv	You know, all kinds of bottles they, they really charge people I guess when you purchase them and then when you turn them back in.

b	Right.	sd	I remember the old days as a kid where bottle was a nickel.

sv	And now most of them are throwaway.	b	Right.

sd	I bought some Cokes the other day in the little bottles you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	I was like, God, how much were those bottles you know?	b	Yes.

sd	And, they come in like, and eight and ten packs, you know instead of six packs	b	Right.

^q	it costs more for the bottles than it did for the Cokes.	sd	That was my brother's first job in a grocery store.

b^m	In the bot , .	sd	It's pretty dangerous out there, you know, when they fall over,

b	Right.	sd	they say that the green glass now, that there's a big glut of green the green glass,

^2	Of green glass.	ny	yeah.

sd	Now, I know that like Minyard's and places like that around like Arlington and Fort Worth and a lot of those grocery stores, they have like four different bins out front. different colors for different things and things like that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they discontinued them because people were coming and dumping their trash in them.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	people just,

sv	more than it's worth.	h	I don't know,

qh	Well, who wants to clean their junk before they throw it away .	aa	That's right,

aa	yeah.	sv	We all do it .

qy	Is that it?	ny	Yeah.

sd	and I guess I was doing this for, actually, I was going to do it for my son he, he's in high school, so that he could make some money.	b	Right.

^q	I'll sit down here and call it .	sd	Well, we're doing it for a church choir

qy^d	are you?	ny	Yeah.

ba	That's nice.	ft	Well, thank you.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qo	and how do you feel about them?	sd	pretty good, actually.

qw	What kind of a degree have you got?	sd	I've got a Bachelor's in electrical engineering

b	Oh.	sd	And I'm not, like, a hugely advanced degree or any of that stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sv	anyway, our benefits are pretty good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, there's a four O one K plan for, sheltering some taxable income.

qw	How long have you been with them?	sd	I've been with them for seven years.

ba	That's good.	sv	And, and a lot of the stuff, the best thing is like four years or five years, it's pretty soon, you're completely vested in the retirement plan and everything,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but th , there's several medical plans to choose from, that cover pretty much everything.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	they don't cover eyes though,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	But, you know, I I can live,

bf	But, for all practical purpose, you are almost a hundred percent covered.	aa	yeah,

sv	So that you've got small things to gripe about.	b	Right.

bf	Well, that sounds like you must feel really good about it.	ny	Yeah,

ba	Wow.	sv	I guess they would charge a little bit if there was some orthodontia or something for one of my dependents or something like that

b	Uh huh.	sd	but that's not the case,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	so, I guess nothing.

ba	Wow.	qo	what about you?

sd	and I get no benefits from them, at the part time work although, they pay better per hour than my sort of, quote, real job does.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm, a computer scientist	b	Uh huh.

sd	and before I got my degree, I had, done paralegal work for law firms here in Washington	b	Uh huh.

sd	for a long time were just rolling in the dough in the early eighties	b	Yeah.

sv	and, benefits were just amazing	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, you know there are other things that you get when you work for the government in, in terms of, more relaxed atmosphere.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, so I'm really kind of happy about that end of things.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I, myself have moved around quite a bit within the company

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I, and I haven't had to move my residence to do that.

sv	that's fabulous.	b	Yeah

sd	because I have a cousin whose husband works for Hewlett Packard up in the Massachusetts area.	bh	yeah?

sd	he lives in Andover	b	Uh huh.

sd	he's, specifically an engineer and does work with, the Hewlett Packard machines that do, sonographic imagining	b	Right,

sv	and it's amazing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, he seems really, really happy with the set up.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he moved his family back east a few years ago to take that position.

qw	So, what kind of music you into?	sd	Well, I have a, pretty wide taste, in music, ranging from progressive rock to jazz to, lot of different forms of, music.

sd	I'm into, some industrial music that's, a bit even harder than that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But it's got to have a point to it.	sd	I don't mind music that's difficult to listen to,

qw	What kind of progressive stuff?	sd	lot of stuff that actually has, ended up becoming popular like, Nirvana and, you know,

sv	it's, a lot of people like, saying that, you know, bands in that position, you know, sold out.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's good music	b	Uh huh.

sv	That's good.	aa	I think it is.

sv	I'm impressed.	sv	for a while there, popular music seemed to have, not a lot of point to it.

b	yeah.	sv	And I could, go down to a bar that's about three minutes from my house and hear people doing covers better than him not making nearly as much money.

sv	and and , that's about all he had going for him. Or still has, for that matter.	aa	I guess.

sv	You hear the same tune over and over again in a thousand guises	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I like a lot of classical music,

qo	What's the standard?	^h	Stuff that I like,

aa	yes.	h	and some stuff that I like,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that's interesting music,

^2	It's safe.	sd	and it, it just isn't chance taking enough for me.

fp	Hello, Lynn.	b	Yes.

qy	Do you have any pets?	ny	Yes,

qw	what are their names?	sd	Tibby and Liberty.

qw	Which is the dog and which is the cat?	sd	Tibby is the dog

sd	wife and I, we have two cats.	b	Oh.

qy	are they, just house pets?	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's what ours are too.	b	Yeah.

sv	well, that's a nice story.	qy	Do you want to hear about my other animals I've had?

na^r	sure.	sd	I've had a skunk

b	Yeah.	sd	I've had a Burmese python,

ba	Wow.	^h	let's see,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So at one point I had a snake, skunk, dog and cat running loose in the house.

qy	the skunk, was it kind of like a cat to have around the house?	ny	Yes

b	Yeah.	sd^e	it was litter trained

b^r	Yeah.	sd	and we had it perfumed

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it was very aggressive.

b	Right.	sd	But all three of them, dog, cat and skunk, used to chase each other all through the house.

b^m	and the skunk.	sd	And the only thing we have with the skunk, he was very, very protective of his territory being the sofa and the blanket on the sofa.

b	yeah.	sd	Nobody came near it when he was there.

sd	and, he chased after a skunk and got sprayed	b	Oh.

sd	so we had to give him a tomato juice bath, and, get him cleaned up,	b	Yeah,

sv	but I suppose it was still in the instinct of them to to back up and get ready.	b	Right.

sv	something giving you some affection as well.	b	Yeah,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	That'd be the best way to be.

qr	do you like big dogs or or little dogs?	sd	Well we had a German Shepherd

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he had it for about three or four years where we just about had to lift him and carry him every place he went.

b	Really.	sd	So, when he died, we got a little one.

b	Yeah.	sd	But our shepherd was almost thirteen years old,

^2	almost cruel for him to walk.	aa	Yeah,

ba	yeah.	sd	So we said the next time around we'd get something little that if something happened, it would be easier to carry.

b	Yeah.	sd	And then we've had three cats in our married life,

sd	we've got a calico cat too.	qy	Do you?

sd	and it was an experience that they didn't enjoy at all.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and my husband, then fianc3e, was to keep my cat,

bh	Really.	sd	And we had such a time, and never got the cat back.

bh^r	Really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	I was a social worker at the time, and found it,

ad	Tell me about your home.	sd	Well, it's an older home.

b	Huh uh.	sd	Got three bedrooms, one bath and that just makes me scream.

qw	What area do you live in?	sd	I live in Houston.

qy	Is that pretty typical for your area?	^h	Well, for the neighborhood I'm in,

b^m	Yeah.	sd	This is one of the more established neighborhoods,

qy	Do you have a big lot, or anything like that?	sd	The whole lot I'm sitting on is roughly half an acre.

bk	I see.	sd	About half of that, about a quarter acre of that, I've got a garden.

sv	In a big city like that most houses, I would think, would be sort of like what we live in. Just a you know, basic tract house.	sd	Well, in the, newer neighborhoods and development communities, the houses are so close together,

b	Yeah.	sd	if your neighbor is having an argument you can here it blow for blow.

qy	is that true?	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	new houses that I've seen.

sv	So that's maybe not so typical,	^2	It helps a bunch.

sd	and then you get those Visa bills in.	b	Yeah.

qy	you know, can you compare yourself to any thing around there.	sd	Most of the neighborhood I'm in is pretty typical.

b	Yeah.	sd	Everybody has got a , pretty good size yard,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, I got probably the biggest,

sd	you have to, the yard to deal with	sd	Well, I, I enjoy that though.

sd	I almost wish I was in an apartment or something. You know,	sd	It's rained .

qy	Do you know?	nn	No,

qy	I mean, do people around that area seem to do a lot of renovation?	ny	Yeah.

sd	the typical homes there are like, you know, early nineteen hundreds late eighteen hundreds,	ba	Wow.

sv	and, you know, there's not a whole lot you can do with it.	sv	Living in the city has some advantages.

aa	That's true.	sd	If given the choice, I'm getting out.

sv	Its like a rat race sometimes.	sd	That's just something I'll never adapt to.

b	Yeah .	sd	If I want to sit around and mess with my garden, I'll mess with my garden,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	if I want to work in the flower beds,

bf	It sounds like you enjoy working outside as well.	na	Very much.

sd	So, you know, I'm just kind of trying to stick in with that,	b	Huh uh.

qy	Do you do a lot of gardening?	no	landscaping is more, than the gardening,

b	Yeah.	sd	in the garden I've got my beans, peas,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	I've got some onions out, tomatoes,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	I'm not real sure what they're going to do this year.

qw	what do you do?	sd	my favorite one is putting on the, tomato plant dust,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	and that stuff has been around since the beginning of time,

qo	Let's see what else do you do to your house?	sd	Well, I've done some rewiring on it.

b	Yeah.	sd	Eventually, if we stay here, I'm going to have to rewire the entire house.

sv	you could probably do that.	sd	I've talked about adding at least one more room and definitely adding another bath on.

qy	Do you not, like, have a half bath.	ng^m	Not even a half bath.

sv	That was a pain.	sd	The only thing that saves it, with the schedule I work and the schedule my wife works, we're getting ready to go to work at totally different times. So that. It's not like we're tripping over each other in the morning.

sv	You get to know each other very well if you have to share a bathroom .	sv	It doesn't work if you're trying to shave and she's trying to put her eyeliner on

qy	Well, do you have any children?	na	I've got one.

qy^d	And they enjoy where they're living?	sd	he's nine months old.

^g	Right.	sd	He likes to dig around a little bit.

qh	why not.	sd	He was eating the dirt,

qy^g	So you think that you want to move away from the big city,	sd	Well, that's what I've always,

qy^d	You want to go back to that,	sd	After we got married we ended up moving to the Houston area.

qy	So are you from Texas?	ny	Yeah.

sv	and I, embarrassed to say, it's pretty trivial.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I doubt I do it more than three times a year.	b^r	Uh huh,

sd	yet I I do everything on paper .	b	Oh.

sd	I don't even use a calculator for the stuff I'm doing because it's all pretty round numbers.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so they come in,

b	Yeah	sd	I don't really have this major budget or anything.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, that's what I do.

sd	I can't imagine having to go into real complicated stuff and making you know, fancy budgets.	b	No.

sv	It seems like if you're getting to that level, you're not in real good control.	b	Uh uh.

b	Uh huh .	sd	you buy something on credit

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	and you pay twice as much for it when you get done. You know

sd	Actually, I mean, I like using credit cards for everything, but just paying off the bills because that way it's a record of everything	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I don't have to worry about keeping records of anything else because they come in at the end of the month.	sd	I don't have too many, I don't have too many weaknesses,

sv	Yeah, I guess if that's if that's a weakness, that's a good thing to do.	aa	Yeah,

b	Sure.	sd	but I, self employed, you know,

qy	Do you find trouble keeping the records for taxes and all that	nn	No,

ba	Well, that's good to know.	sd	So, I always do my own income tax, you know.

b	Yeah.	qy	Do you?

sv	It seems like it's absurd the number of people who end up having to pay somebody to do it.	sv	all you got to do is read a book, I mean read the little book they send you fill in the blanks and go.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, it seems absurd that people will pay, you know, some bucks just to get someone to,

sv	and a lot of them.	sv	it's dumb .

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I don't use a calculator either, you know .

sd	I, I don't trust myself with using a calculator or computer, too much stuff like that because I want to make sure that I, I keep on top of the numbers and understand what's going on.	sd	I don't have that many, you know, things to add up

sd	if they make a mistake, they find out two months later because they weren't paying attention.	b	yeah.

b	Yeah.	qy	Do you do that?

sd	We have the same thing.	qy^d	You do too?

ny	Yeah.	sd	And I always check them off and, you know, check my balance and my book you know, because I always want to know exactly what I have, you know.

b	Sure.	sd	I do that real often.

qo	so, what are your views on capital punishment?	sd	I have ambivalent feelings because I don't think it serves as a kind of deterrent we would like to think it is.

aa	Yes.	sd	And it's eating us alive budget wise

qy	So are they currently practicing capital punishment in your state?	ny	Yes,

sd	that's similar to Georgia.	b	Yeah.

sv	I guess in a way that, it kind of defeats the purpose of having capital punishment if,	sv	Well, I think capital punishment is supposed to be primarily a deterrent to other people. You know, who would see it.

sv	that would be the intent of it.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, I think it would be more successful if it was applied in a more expedient manner, if there weren't so many appeals.	bf	Quicker maybe,

sv	if the person who's going to commit the crime knew that they were going to be punished severely, possibly capital punishment,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I work, with Georgia Tech.	sd	well, see, I'm a school principal.

b	Yes.	sd	And in a very poor section of town with predominantly Anglo kids.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I think we would make a bigger investment in kids,

sv	but I guess there's other factors that,	b	yeah.

sv	But, p , pumping more money into the school system is a good thing,	sd	Well I'm not talking about just in the school system.

b	I see.	sd	See, I'm talking about,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Five hundred of them are good, solid kids

ba	So that's a difficult situation.	sd	And, you know, you just see those kids going down the road.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think that's one reason we have problems in schools,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	But that's another subject

aa	Well, that's probably true.	sd	I dealt with two or three kids today that are going to end up where somebody making a decision what to do with them.

sv	there's no easy solution for that.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	qy	do you know it costs more to keep an inmate on death row than it does to send a kid to Harvard?

aa	yeah.	sd	Statistically, that's true.

sv	certainly capital punishment isn't going to solve a lot of problems	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess I am for certain cri ,	b	Yeah.

sd	in certain crimes.	qw	What kind of crimes would you use it for?

sv	premeditated murder. Crimes of that nature, I think should definitely,	bk	Uh huh.

sd	any mass murderer type individual.	sd	I would consider it for sexual abuse of children, on going. You know, not one instance, but perpetual abusers of children.

sd	Well, you always have castration .	sd	Well, you know, somebody elected that recently.

sd	I read about that .	sd	And all the civil rights people are up in arms about it, you know.

ad	you're first.	cc	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And plus, for me, it's, I mean like medical and you know, benefits and dental.

b	Okay.	sv	They're also important.

sv	but not being in say the commercial sector, the motivation isn't there for a lot of people like really,	qy	Are they like pretty much train for a specific job

sv	but then also there just isn't the ability to in one sense have, a broader scope for rewarding people for their performances.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's a little more difficult to recognize an individual's performance	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	But I agree, you know, the, medical benefits and those kinds of things are one of the big pluses of working for a large organization and also the, security aspect for long term employment,	sv	Well, you know that's interesting though.

ny	yes.	sv	that use to be I think a couple of years ago,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, you know, some people had been there a long time.

sd	Like in some of the large oil companies. There has been massive lay offs.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so I think it's probably a major distinction between institutions and the corporate world in, institutions are slower to react both on the growth side and then also on the reduction side where the businesses, we need to cut back, that's what we do.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	it's where it's most expedient which, Well, in one sense for us, it's where it makes the least noise which means it's often the lowest support type roles.	b^m	Expedient,

sv	It's very easy.	b	Yeah

b	Yeah.	sd	And then they wonder why it doesn't get done in the same amount of time.

sd	Because it's support people that are providing the speed for it.	b	Yeah.

sv	there is not much incentive for innovativeness because the limitation for reward is very severe	b	Uh huh.

sv	although you know, the more complex your structure the, less difficult it is to kind of carry some things through	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	and so you can see the reward of the efforts.	sv	I think probably in a small,

b	Right.	sv	Probably, where as in a bigger corporation, I think you're just a number, you know.

sv	You end up being your own person	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, if you do your job fine and if somebody else is messing it up, well then that's their problem	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	It becomes the organization instead of person being you know a part of the individual themselves.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you have children?	nn	No.

sd	Because I didn't know if that would make a difference in how you felt.	b	Yeah.

qo	what do you think about the proposal that all young Americans should spend a year or two,	sv	I think it's a good idea.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think it's,

sd	and, I had opportunities in high school, to work in some programs,	qy	Did you?

sd	and I agree with what you said that it's, it benefits the person doing it so much I don't think they realize	b	Uh huh.

sv	and and it would certainly help the country, too,	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	they were, they did things for people, you know, for their communities, for their, families, for their friends, where now, I'm not sure they really do.

sd	but I do know through some organized groups like Scouts and church they, do still have opportunities.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, I think that's a small, number could,	qy	but even through those groups, do you think that they participate as much as maybe they used to?

sv	And that was something, I think in the fifties and sixties, seemed more common in the last two decades.	b	Uh huh.

qw	What part of the country?	sd	Well, I live in Richardson right now. Which is just,

sd	so we're not far apart.	aa	Right.

sd	so I know there is the possibility that it could be out of the area.	b	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	I mean a real small town .

sv	if young people had to do it maybe that would start the trend back because that's one of the things I always thought was a wonderful part of our country. is helping others .	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know how young you'd have to go

sv	they're, things even just starting around the home. You know	b	Right.

sv	little ones can do a little bit to help the family.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think that's a good place to start again.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean when you live in areas like that where there's so much they don't realize what a small percentage of the world that is.	b	Uh huh.

sv	gosh I'm sure, not even one percent of the world is as fortunate as these areas	sv	That's probably true.

sd	but they have a high school group that works in the Appalachia area every year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They've done this for fourteen years now.	ba	that's great.

sd	Some of the things, that we talked about that were common in the fifties are still there	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that's just the two weeks during the summer.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	So, if two weeks, could have that kind of effect I would think,	ba	Well, that's great.

b	Okay.	b^m	Okay.

fc	Well, I enjoyed talking with you.	fc	Well, good talking with you.

fc	And I hope you have a good evening.	fc	You too.

ft	Thanks.	fc	Okay.

fc^r	bye.	fc	Bye .

sd	and they weren't worth anything anymore.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it just really wasn't worth it.	bf	And a lot of hassle all year round

aa	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

qy	Have you all got the individual containers yet?	nn	No,

sv	They were fine on the big green containers	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then that they would sort it as as needed.	b	Oh.

sd	so they felt that having one guy just sit there and run through it real quick was better than having a household try it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that sounds like an awful lot of labor to sort the entire week's worth of trash for a house.	sv	Well, it would get messy, too.

b^r	yeah,	sd	I, I know other places when they recycle, they have to, like, wash out their glass jars and whatnot. which we're not in the habit of doing.

aa	That's true.	sd	I was brought up, you know, long time ago, that they didn't even have cans.

b	Right.	sd	and you'd get our money back

sv	and it seemed to be a very popular thing for people driving by that highway there, by our tracks to throw the bottles at the tracks and try to crash, you know break them,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we just walk about a half a mile in each direction and gathered up enough to buy whatever we wanted for the day	b	Uh huh.

sv	just a little bit of begging will ,	b	right.

b	Right.	sd	But, we did buy a can crusher

b	Yeah.	sv	it was just easier to do that than to open a large liter bottle and then have it go flat.

b	yeah.	sd	So that's the main reason we, sort of are into cans at this point rather than the liter bottles .

qw	Where do you take your cans?	^h	Well, as you say, it takes a while to build it up.

qy^d	Buying a car is, something you're contemplating, I take it.	na	fantasizing about.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I have a mini van we bought a few years ago.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the car I get to drive is a, Nissan Sentra that's going to be ten years old next month

qw	what kind of a car do you think you'll buy next?	sd	Well , since I just turned forty, I'm thinking about a forty year old man's car, something real sporty

b	Uh huh.	sd*	but, realistically with, the need to take the kids to school, probably have to have something that, wouldn't wined up putting their knees this their throat when they sat in the back seat. / * spelling wined should be wind

b	Uh huh.	sd	Something a little seating room.

sd	it's a nineteen eighty seven	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I think the four door is probably a major requirement	b	Sure.

sd	you know, I'm not looking for one with a great big engine,	b^r	Sure.

sv	and I think that's probably a little over kill for this day and age.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, you know, V eights seem to be a return to the days of, you know, ten or twelve miles a gallon.

sv	and it's it's handy to have a truck and not have to borrow one.	b	Sure.

sv	and I figure if it's so bad that I need a four wheel drive, I probably ought to be home anyway .	sv	Actually, pretty good way of looking at it,

ba	Wow.	sd	A case where there was a, sort of freak ice storm

b	Uh huh.	sd	Haven't had any problems since.

qw	what make is the mini van?	sd	It's a Mazda.

bk	I see.	sd	And, we're pleased with it in terms of comfort, and, driveability.

b	Right.	sd	so we've been able to do some real creative, load hauling when called upon.

sd	One of my sons has a Plymouth, van or, you know, that same type of thing, the Voyager, I guess	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I know if we had kids still at home, we're in our fifties now, but, if we had kids still at home, we'd certainly have to seriously consider a van just for their functional value.	b	Yeah,

qy	Is that something that you'd be interested in	sd	I'd be satisfied with a good front wheel drive car when it comes time to replace the Sentra.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And even as light as that is with, the small tires it's done pretty well in winter,

b	Uh huh.	sv	again, like you, if conditions are that bad, I probably don't want to be driving anyway.

b	Right.	sd	So I know I'd be happy with a reasonable, four door.

sd	I guess we collect milk cartons and whatever other plastics are acceptable.	qy	Are you in the part of town where, they have gotten into the other containers yet for recycling?

sv^e	I didn't think that anybody had those at all yet.	aa	Well, maybe they don't.

sd	and, I'm kind of anxious to see them.	b	Yeah,

b	right.	sv	it will be interesting to see how well that works

b^r	Right.	sd	and you got a nickel or dime, which in that time was a lot of money, when you returned them.

sd	You know actually, we had milk delivered to our house in glass bottles	b	Oh.

sd	and we had a milk shoot at the side of the house.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You could just leave the milkman a note on what you needed	b	Yeah.

sd	and he took them away and you know, put another gallon of glass bottle in there.	b	Yeah.

b	So, yeah,	sd	So, you know, I look back at, my childhood

sv	Just, To see stacks and stacks of newspapers just to the trash is just amazing.	b	Yeah.

sv	seems like there's a p , pretty continual flow of people coming and dumping glass and dumping plastics	b	Uh huh.

sd	I didn't know what to expect.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	but on the plastic, I don't have any habits there yet

sv	Well, I guess they will shortly.	sv	and I think if we just start to put, you know, the nickel deposit on things, like, was the case years ago that, it would have more immediate effect,

b	right.	sv	and it seems like beer drinkers are among the worst for throwing things out the window

sd	Do you know, in Tom Thumb yesterday, I saw the return to the small Coke bottles.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I don't know if there's a deposit on those or not.	sv	well that's interesting because,

sd	they'd be, I don't know, maybe ten ounce or six ounce or ten ounce. sort of a small size and anyway we just, we didn't stop and look at them a long time	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they were packed in the old sort of six pack stick them down, you know, sort of a basket type thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, I hadn't seen that in a long time.	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah,	sv	Well, it will be interesting to see how, over the next year, this all works out because, like on the, grass, I know your husband, doesn't really like the paper sacks.

sd	He doesn't, Doesn't,	b	Yeah.

aa^r	right.	sd	so I'm glad the city's willing to take that on.

qy^d	I wonder where they dump that.	sd	Well, there's someplace, you know,

sv	well they must keep it separate if they have this date in.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They have this day now, that it's, you know, separate from the other trash pick up.	b	Right .

sv	but, It's out of control.	aa	yeah,

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

sv	okay, I would not have guessed that in Seattle.	b	Yeah,

ny	Yeah.	ar	No,

sv	I mean, it seems like our, the prison systems, we can't seem to decide whether or not it's a reform system or penal system.	b	Yeah,

sv	and all we do is just displace other people which come back into society and commit crimes	b	Yeah.

sv	I'm not convinced that I have.	b	Yeah.

sd	and she was dealing mostly with people that were in on drug crimes	qy	you mean she taught in a prison?

ny	Yes.	b	Oh.

sd^e	In a in a maximum security prison down in central Virginia.	b	I see.

sd	the people that she had the most problems with were the people that ran the prison.	b	Yeah,

sd	but I just assume it was something that she could hit immediately and really annoy a lot of people.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, she got a couple of inmates that she didn't feel quite as comfortable around.	b	Yeah.

sd	so next thing you know she's teaching in a maximum security prison.	b	Yeah,

sv	and I'm thinking that it's even to the point that the people that run the system have given up on it.	sv	well, I think the people yeah, that run the system are the most hardened and probably the most cynical, you know.

sd	I always have problems because I can never decide whether or not I'm supposed to be a conservative or a liberal	b	Yeah,

sv	But I keep, I keep thinking that there's got to be some way, that a lot of this is circumstances.	sv	Those are funny labels, see .

sv	I mean, I can't help but wonder if I grew up without a father, on the streets, and with like little or no money, wouldn't wouldn't I be in prison at this point?	b	yeah.

h	I mean, I don't know.	sv	I mean, as, you know, as poverty has gotten worse, as, you know, education has gotten worse, as there's been more single parent families, as there's been more homelessness, there's been more crime.

sv	We've got methadone programs where people who desperately want to get off drugs can't get onto the program.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and what he,	qy	Is he the guy wants to, like, deregulate heroin, or something?

sd	Well, what he wants to do is take all the money that, he gets for drug enforcement and use it for, drug education.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And basically, just attack the problem at the demand side.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	it's been, well seventy nine since I was at school. At high school.	b	Uh huh.

qy	You know what I mean?	na	Right.

sd	and I certainly see how much I pay in real estate taxes every year.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, somebody's getting a good education because we, continue to employ people.	b	Right.

sd	But, I don't understand the, I don't understand, I guess, why the schools seem to have such a high dropout rate in the big cities.	sd	well, I don't pretend to understand that either.

sv	I think I blame it on the school system.	sd	Well, that's I meant when I said the school.

sv	well, they do quite well for themselves .	sv	Well, that's odd because I don't think the teachers in my school district, were well paid.

sd	and they both have, like second jobs that they work in the afternoons.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And from their teaching job alone, they pull in forty grand each.	b	Yeah.

sd	I agree that teaching our kids is important.	b	Right.

sd	And I don't even have kids .	aa	Yeah,

fp	Hi .	fp	Hi.

sd	I should say something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I, I never watch T V news nor listen to the news on the radio unless I'm just happening to be listening to music and they slip it on in the car radio before I can turn it off.	qy	Any particular reason? .

sd	I do learn about things. Largely from friends	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I'll learn all about this thing that was in the news two years earlier.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I mean, I don't think it's just that I'm lazy .	aa	I really don't,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	and, I guess you could explain it two ways.

b	Yeah.	sv	And I think the same thing is true with news.

b	Yeah.	sv	If you were deeply involved in it, then you immediately realize that what they print is stuff that you probably knew already and the stuff that you want they're not printing because the average person doesn't need or want to know that much.

sv	So, I mean, I'm not being elitist in that sense, I hope.	sv	Well, I mean, there's a reasonable question as to whether it's worth the amount of time it takes to keep up on things .

b	Yeah.	sv	And most people think it is

sv	I think it's like ninety nine point ninety nine think it is, percent.	ar	I don't think it's that high.

qy^d	you don't?	sd	I know a lot of people who may watch the T V news in the evening but don't spend the time to actually read a newspaper.

b	Right.	sv(^q)	And I think they're saying well if something's really important, I'll at least find out that it happened.

b	Yeah.	sv	and that's, is a reasonable start

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I imagine you get the same level of something that you cared about happened, you'd find out from friends or other channels .

sd	I did, on the Supreme Court hearings, for, the whole business of,	bf	Clarence Thomas or,

sd	the Thomas and Anita Hill business.	b	Right.

sd	I deeply cared about that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But even then, I didn't end up doing it on my own.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I decided I didn't want to waste the time

sv	I think if we wait, which is happening until somebody says we have to do it it is going to be to late.	b	Yeah.

sd	I have heard reports around here that the landfills will be full by the year two thousand.	b	Yeah,

sd	I can take plastic and paper bags back to the grocery store	b	Uh huh.

sv	and that is very inconvenient cause I have to wait until I have enough of them to make the trip worthwhile.	sd	Well see, I started saving newspapers

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I can't remember where I went to take them,

sd	bottles	aa	I know.

sd	but there is no place to,	^2	There is no really recycling facilities.

sd	We have a pilot program in Arlington going on I think in the north part of the city where they have people separate the trash as they put it out.	sv	I think that is a good idea.

sv	And I think that is what it is going to have to come to. Where we are just forced to.	bf	Besides, well like a law or whatever.

sv	just because they have to. You know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's trouble for me to do what I do	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, I am willing to do it	sd	Plus you have to have a place to store all of it

b	Yeah.	sd	and see I live in an apartment.

sd	In Iowa, the state I am from I believe it has gone up to a dollar now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Every time you buy a container, no matter what it is, whether it is glass, whether it's a beer can or a fifth of whiskey or a pop or whatever, you pay ten cents for it	b	Yeah.

sd	and you get it back.	bf	so that way it kind of forces you to recycle.

sd	And, you also don't see the litter there.	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	I don't know if you've tried it	ny	Yeah,

sd	and they have on the ba , it's five cents, that they pay five cents	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it even shows the states that,	^2	That take them back.

sd	I am looking at it right now.	qy	Is Texas one of them?

sd	So, I have to throw them away cause there is no place to take glass.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we have a paper recycling program that, is company wide

qy	Do they save like the paper they use at the office paper.	ny	Yeah.

qy^g	Because there is a lot of waste there isn't there.	ny	Yeah.

b^r	Right.	sd	But, we use to have,

b^r	Right.	sd	I mean they have made a substantial amount of money from it.

sd	like, I have decided Downy Fabric Softener now has where you can buy a little carton	b	Yeah.

sd	but I am going to stick with Downey because they were first.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	There is so much plastic.	aa	Well I know,

sv	and they don't want to think about it.	aa	Yeah,

sd	You know, I want to feel like I at least tried.	b	Yeah.

sv	It may be too late.	qy	I mean, I don't know that much. Do they not ever burn trash or anything like,

ng	Very little.	sd	Then, that's pollution.

sd	Well, that doesn't do me any good because I don't have any place to burn it.	b	Yeah,

sd	And then just like the glass bottles, that it says on the bottle I can get ten cents, but not in Texas.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I still throw away a lot of glass.	sv	It is really sad.

sd	and then we get a little bit of pollution in the valley.	sd	Well, here in Seattle, the air's getting more and more polluted.

sd	and it's like seventy percent of it is from cars.	b	Uh huh .

sd	and we're starting to hit pollution levels now on the Wasatch front which match that of L A a few years ago.	b	Oh.

sd	and now it's not in the mountain valleys.	b	Yeah.

sd	emissions.	b	yeah.

sd	population is a lot lighter up here.	sd	We have that here

sd^m	They're eliminating that out here.	b	Yeah.

sd	Kind of like a radar gun.	b	really,

sd	and you can look at the emissions actually.	qw	Now where does the source light go?

sd	They'll set up like a trap or something like that in some sense.	bk	I see.

sd	It was like four hundred times as much of certain pollutants, and it was like unburned hydrocarbons, then a properly tuned car.	ba	Jeez.

sd	and the idea being that well if you tuned up this ten percent of the cars that were producing like fifty percent of the pollution then, you know, it'd be one way to cut the pollution in half.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But if I take the bus, it requires several transfers

b	Yeah.	sd	And you know, I feel guilty cause I'm driving a ,

sv	it, you know, it, it really isn't doing any real good purpose for anything because it's not cost effective because of the amount of time the people end up waiting on appeal.	aa	Right,

sd	because you, you've got all the prison expenses, plus all the legal expenses.	b	Right.

sv	and, you know, it certainly doesn't seem to be a deterrent. for one thing because it's used so infrequently and for another thing because I honestly don't think the people that are committing the crimes that would be eligible, you know, really care.	sv	committing them mostly is, you know, either crimes of passion or at the moment

^q	You know, I, I'm never going to get caught.	b	Yeah,

sd	one way or another.	sd	Whereas if you kill him, there is not that possibility.

sv	but the other side to that is, if you put him in prison for life, there's a chance that he might do things in prison, you know, and somehow redeem himself.	b	Yeah,

^q	guess we killed the wrong guy.	b	Yeah,

sv	I've heard quotes, you know, it's better that a thousand people go free, than one person be unjustly imprisoned. I think is really the philosophy of the way our legal system works.	aa	yeah,

sd	Tsongas is also saying, you know, make it a capital crime to be a major drug dealer.	b	Right.

sv	They risk their lives every day.	b	Yeah,

sv	w , we're going to get capital punishment here probably after the second coming or something.	b	Yeah.

sv	but you look at our crime rates and things like that and you compare them to like Texas or someplace that does, you know, it, it's impossible to make a case that it's affecting it in any way.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think it's mainly, people, like, they get the vengeance of it.	b	Yeah,

sv	You know, a, a sixty two year old guy is less likely to be put on death row from what I've seen.	b	Right.

sv	but you know, you know, what, the important thing is that they be caught and not be a danger to society.	b	Right.

b	Right,	sd	you will work your prison job

sd	and, the other thing is that, you know, I was reading through a book on, human geneo research	b	Uh huh.

sd	and why, does it just turn out to be genetic or biochemical in origin.	b	Right.

^q	and, you know, if you take this regularly, you'll be a sane and productive member of society you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you really get back to the question of, you know, is someone responsible for their actions.	b	Yeah,

qr	Do you work for a big or a little place?	sd	I work for Georgia Tech.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, on a scale, I guess it's still considered small.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	The area I work in, it primarily have maybe a hundred people or so.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	So that's make up most of the laboratory

b^r	Uh huh.	qo	What about yourself?

sd	I work for, Lincoln Laboratory.	bk	okay.

sd	We actually do some work with some people down at Georgia Tech.	bk^r	okay.

sv	So it's very much the same kind of place the technical institution.	b	okay.

sv	while I was sitting here waiting while they tried to find somebody for me to talk to, trying to think of what things were important, besides salary and a job. I guess, list I had scribbled down was the people you worked with and maybe the challenge of the work and, the working conditions, things like that.	b	Uh huh.

qw	what sorts of things would you consider important?	sd	Well those and probably the security aspect of it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because a lot of time nowadays, even though you're working, you're treated,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	Because when it come down to layoff, they don't really consider people and, you know, their well being as far as, you know, how their next dollar going to come in.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I was reading this book one time about this guy that had,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That way that, you know, one person wouldn't get one big blunt blow at one time.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	And, you know, I think if they had programs that set up to subsidize people that do get laid off a little bit better, you know, other than you know, something like,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	You know. Because it's not a person's fault that, you know, people not buying or businesses are not on the up and up all the time, you know.

qo	Now how do you mean that?	qw^d	Well in a sense that say, how do you make a conclusion that you're going to lay off these ten people. for the bad times of the company.

b	Uh huh.	qw^d	What about the work effort those ten people did when the company was doing well.

qy	Well, you think it's better than to try to spread the effort equally among all the employees of the company	ny	yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I really do.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	and, you know, there are reason to look for another job instead of just dumping it on them all at one time.

b	Uh huh.	h	You know. that's my views, you know.

sd	They went to a, a four and a half day work week rather than yeah, just cut everybody back ten percent. And, have to, give everybody a half day a week off.	b	Right.

sv	And I think you can do that for a little while	sv	Well at least that would give a person a chance to look you know. Because the way it is, a person really don't have a chance .

sd	Well, I used to work in a day care center.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and this is supposed to be a very well known center here in Tyler who had two or three, centers, all over, you know, the, city	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and they would, be one way when the parents were there and be another way when the parents left.	b	Yeah.

sv	So, I think you know, if you do, do day care centers, you know you should make frequent checks to check in on them when they're not expecting it.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	Because they do things differently when you're not around,	sd	the things that we kind of looked at is you want to see how many teachers you have. and how many kids they have and how they break it up.

b	Right.	sv	Because we had one that sounds kind of like what you were in.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it was a really good one,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But they didn't have enough teachers

sd	I mean they had two teachers to every room. sometimes three.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they had a good system like so when you walked in, everything looks cool.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	They did not show them care to these small children who are being left.	b^r	Uh huh.

^q	this child was crying and needed some comfort, you know,	b	Yeah.

^q	what is your problem.	qy	did they separate them by age group?

ny	Yes.	sv	Because you know, I think that's one thing that was important.

sd	they had like, the crawlers, the babies that didn't walk in one room. The ones that were starting to walk in one room.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Then they had like the, three year olds, upper fours, lower fours, upper fives, lower fives. You know, just like that.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, they really did separate them well.	sv	it sound,

sd	It was just the teachers themselves.	sv@	It sounds like to me your concern would be to make sure that they are loving people. .

sd	that they're not,	sv	Affectionate people that they're, they're kind of par , may be parents themselves or something.

sv	but, you know, the caring just wasn't there.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and she was fabulous.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	But, every one of the others that I saw was just screaming and yelling and, you know, would make me a nervous wreck,	b	Yeah.

sd	these kids are just in a day care center all day and, with any type of emotional, you know, getting care,	b	Yeah.

sv	they're just there. You know. Going through this routine, which is lousy.	b^r	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we knew them from other associations

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	he would, you know, laugh with the kids and play with the kids

sv	you don't see that much.	b	Yeah,

ba	That's cute.	sd	but they also did some of the teaching things

sv	that has to be with a day care center.	sd	you know so you know, they used, I think they used the,

sd	that's a new one, on me.	sd	I can't remember what they call it actually

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they have to stand there,

qy	So do you have P C s?	sd	I have a personal computer at home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I also have a P C at work that I use as a terminal.

b^r	Uh huh.	qo	What about you?

sd	but neither one do we really own.	qy	Are you leasing them?

sd^e	both of them are sort of work related,	qy^d	Loaners from work?

sd^e	that's the nicer way, right.	qy	Do you work for T I?

sd	and these computers actually are from France.	qw	What brand are they?

sd	One of them's a Compaq	bk	Uh huh.

sd	it's a three eighty six	ba	I'm jealous.

sd	we decided not to get the which is actually another loaner one too that we picked up for a consulting job that my husband was doing ,	qw	What kind of consulting do you do?

sd	well, I actually do some work, working at M I T and at NIST, National Institute of Standards and Technology in Washington,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I worked for Dragon Systems for a while.	qw	What kind of work do you do when you're consulting?

sd	it's very different in the different places,	qy	Is it programming related?

sd	and I do a lot metacoustic phonetics and looking at the acoustic characteristics of speech,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Mostly I use it for writing papers and things like that.	bf	Word processing.

qy	do you know Latek? Wo , Word text processing,	nn^e	No I'm not familiar with that.

sd	but I don't usually use a word processor to do it	b	Uh huh

sd	and we connect to other computers to read our net mail and things like that.	bf	So, you've got a modem in it then.

sd	but we have a modem.	qy^d	At home you have a modem that you can connect to each of them?

na	Right.	qy^d	and so it's an external modem.

sd^e	we have .	sd	when I got mine I had an internal modem in it

b	Uh huh.	sd	I used it, quite a bit when I was, looking at, information on a large bulletin board sponsored by a newspaper in Fort Worth

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	but, went out of town for a while,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and after a while the modem started making noises on its own even without using it on the computer,

bf	So that was it.	sv	I think that's the thirty second warning.

qy	Do you hear, the beep in the background.	ny	Yes.

sv	that's an ambulance or something going on here, I think.	aa	Okay.

sd	In Manhattan.	qy	Are you at home now?

sd^e	I'm at home.	qy^d	So you've got a lot of traffic noise real close.

sd	I can't do this much later than now, between sort of like six, five thirty and six thirty or something like that, because the traffic outside, they honk the horn so loud I can't even hear the phone call.	qw	What time is it now where you are?

sd	about twenty after four.	sd	So you're an hour ahead of where I am.

qy	And, did you ever try using like Prodigy or any of those systems?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

qy	did you use commercially available software	sd	I have used Lotus.

b	Uh huh.	sd	not heavy use.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and I have a great deal of respect for it.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I haven't done much word processing work with my job.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and the D Base work I've done was strictly class related.

sd	but I've heard both good things and bad things about it.	sd	Well, it's probably the granddaddy of most, data base management systems.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's got some pretty strong competitors.

sd	people told me that it was sort of cumbersome to use.	sd	I can understand that very easily.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and both of those seem very easy to use compared to D Base.

qrr	Or do you think the others are pretty much compatible these days?	sv	I wouldn't say compatible, but certainly comparable.

sd	My brain is going to mush.	b	Uh huh.

qw	And what do you work on at T I?	sd	I'm a computer programmer on the I B M main frames.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I do, mainly business data processing.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I also handle production support for the systems in my area of responsibility.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	sometimes I get called late at night at home because there's a production problem,

b	Right.	sd	I also, handle most of the calls from our users and other programmers who need to find out something connected,

sv	So, with the issue of trial by jury, I actually found the whole question about whether you need a unan , a unanimous verdict in a criminal case to be somewhat interesting.	aa	Yeah,

no	I don't know if it's even true that it's always unanimous because I thought there were cases I don't know if it's the difference between felonies and misdemeanors, but where it was okay for a state to have it like eleven out of twelve.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I wonder,

sd	But I don't know whether you need a unanimous, vote of not guilty to acquit.	b	Yeah,

sd	But I've never had the opportunity to serve on a jury, although I've been out here and registered for, I guess, about five years.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	and I've never gotten up there to answer any of the questions.

sd	Well, the people I know who have served have said that usually what ends up happening is that, you know, after initially finding out where people stand, that the whole deliberation usually results, if there is you know, something like a nine, three or more severe and the people in the majority trying to convince the minority that they're right	b	Uh huh.

sv	and in fact, I'm not sure that that's any more, liable to get rid of the reasonable doubt than anything else.	sv	Well, the one thing that I know does seem to happen from people I've talked to on this, is that in the situation you just said where it's nine to three, or some such number, that there's starts being a lot of peer pressure going on

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that, peer pressure,

sd	I'd read one book, I think it was calls TRIAL BY JURY of all things, that, went through and interviewed a bunch of jurors in some of the big cases, and in many cases looking at the evidence afterwards as to whether the decision was right, went back to the jurors, based on the deliberations.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Some of them did say that, you know, when they were the only one left opposing the verdict, you know, everyone was getting on them so heavily that eventually they just gave in knowing that nothing they could do could stop it from either being the verdict everyone else was trying for or a hung jury because the one vote doesn't mean anything except the ability to not have a verdict.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	qy	You ever seen that movie?

sd^e	once.	b	, yeah,

qw	So, What kind of experience do you have, then with child care?	qy^d	I guess, I think, I wonder if that worked.

qy	Does it say something?	sd	I think it usually does.

qy	Well, Does it usually make a recording or s ,	b	Okay

aa	Okay.	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	qy	do you have kids?

na	I have three.	bh	really?

sd	but I used to work when I had two children.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't envy anybody who's in that situation to find day care.	b	Yeah.

qy	But, does your sister live in a big community?	ny	yeah

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she's able to take her baby to work with her.

bh	really?	sd	And it's a small office that she works in

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it's a legal office,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so they have an extra room and everything for the baby,

sd	I know a lot of people around here sometimes have, like, mothers or grandmothers that take care of their kids	b	Yeah.

sd	you either know them or know somebody who knows them , to get to,	b	Yeah,

sd	I don't feel comfortable about leaving my kids in a big day care center, simply because there's so many kids and so many ,	qy	Worried that they're not going to get enough attention?

sd^e	and, you know, colds and things like that get spread real easy and things,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, course, there's a lot of different types of day care available, too, you know, where they teach them academic things.	aa	Yes.

sv	take a long time to find the right place	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Anything, I guess, could happen.

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	I guess after he, you know, gets to a certain age she's going to have to take him to a day care.

sd^e	when he starts toddling around and stuff.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	sd	when he's not, when she can't keep control of him

sv	It would be nice to have him around	b	Uh huh.

"	or the phone rang you know, at the wrong time .	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you work now?	no	I don't know

b	Uh huh.	sv	I always kind of think it would be neat to be able to watch them and be there for them all the time.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Is that what you do?

sd	so I'm here all the time.	bf	so they don't go to school.

b^r	yeah.	sv	That's interesting.

sd	you know, but my kids are only elementary levels right now	bf	So they haven't been to public schools at all.

qw	What is your name by the way?	sd	I'm Ann.

sv	lot of interesting procedural things I think would be a good change if we're going to be talking about the subject tonight which in some I guess criminal courts the ,	br^m	Criminal courts?

sd	and that is the exclusion of jurors because of or in spite of their race.	bh	really?

sd	the jury that's trying, the officers in that case, is an all white panel.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And there's been a lot made in the local papers of that, fact.	b	I see.

sd	They moved it up to the county north of here.	b	Oh.

sv	and it's kind of debatable whether you could get a fair trial almost anywhere because that,	sv	Well, that videotape was just horrible.

sv	It was everywhere.	aa	Yes.

sv	and I think it would be very difficult to find a panel that would not have seen it and known of what was going on.	aa	I agree with you

sv	But on the other hand, it's also saying that white jurors are not going to convict.	b	Right.

sv	the whole point of being on a jury is to convict or, or, let go based on whether, or not the person, whether or not the evidence says, that there's enough ,	aa	Exactly.

sv	but I rather imagine there's some snickering about it. And a lot of the usually fatalistic, here we go again folks, kind of stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sv	on, on one hand you know, on the one hand you almost hope that they convict them because they have that very strong piece of physical evidence showing, these people beating the heck out of this guy.	aa	exactly.

b	Uh huh.	o*	There. /* listen

b	Yeah. ,	qo	What about the judge who's hearing the case?

sd	and, she had a dispute, black girl.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The owner of the store popped her.	bh	really?

sd	and the judge gave the woman who shot the girl practically a suspended sentence.	ba	my goodness.

sd	and then, we have these, we have people wondering around with petitions trying to get the judge,	^2	To get that judge recalled I would think.

aa^r	Yeah.	sv	That's almost when you kind of wish that there where standardized sentences.

sv	it would make life easier.	aa	It would.

b	Yeah.	sd	the whole world would know what you were facing.

sd	Angie.	b^m	Angie,

bd	Okay.	qw	Well, now, so if you were going to have a dinner party, what would you make?

sd	spicy lobster with linguini.	sv	That sounds good.

b	Yeah.	br	Now what is, the steamed shellfish you said?

ny	Uh huh.	qr	And what would that be like, a clam or,

na	Right.	bk	Okay.

sd	and that way, you can have a variety.	qw	So if you have a dinner party and you're going to serve, seafood for supper, what type of, hors d'oeuvres would you serve prior to the meal?

sv	fresh vegetables would be good	qy^g	Probably not nachos and dip,

nn	No.	qy	And would it be appropriate to, drink when you have the hors d'oeuvres?

ny^r	yeah.	bk	Okay.

qy	what, white wine?	na	That would be my guess.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, And then, dessert.

sd	so I don't know a lot about that.	qy^d	Something sweet?

sd	chocolate, something chocolate.	qy^d	You must like chocolate.

ny	Yes.	^h	Well, let's see.

qy^d	you do?	sd	So, we might have some cocktails ahead of time and maybe some dip, some cheese.

b	Yeah.	sd	and then you just dip the cracker in the sauce with the clams and the cream cheese

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then, I don't know what we usually have for dessert.

sv	That sounds good, too.	sv	But I guess when you talk about dinner party, that's probably not, that's more for like when friends come over.

^g	right?	sd^r	Traditional,

b	Yeah.	sv	I wouldn't be the big, snotty kind.

qy^d	I don't know if you've heard of her.	nn	Huh uh.

sd	and she talks about catering and, you know, goes into all that and the different types of parties, you know, different types of foods.	qy	well, do you work in a setting where you, are in the food business?

sd	my father owns a restaurant.	qy	in, Is it in Dallas?

sd	it's in Lewisville.	bk	Okay,

sd	Trinity.	b^m	Trinity,

sd	That's public.	bk	okay,

sd^e	it's not.	qy^d	and he's not interested in letting his twenty one year old daughter experiment with it probably.

qw	what about Hawaiian luau.	sv	that would be good.

^h	let's see,	sv	And you could actually go with, a chicken if you wanted to.

sv	so it's real vital to the future of not only our kids but every generation until the end of time, I guess.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Star Wars is not too far I don't think.	sd	I, I worked on some of it at T I once upon a time.

qh	have you.	ny	Yeah.

qw	So what do you know about it.	sd	Well, actually I, I'm quite versed lately.

ba	my gosh.	b	Yeah,

qy	you think you'd, go up in space if you had a chance?	ny	yeah

bh	Do you,	sd^e	I think I would.

sv	That'd be pretty hairy.	sd	Well, you know, I had a tire come off of a car,

ba	imagine.	sd	Depending on what was left of my technology to get me home .

sv	So, well, I guess they're talking about people going to the moon and stuff, now, wherever. And opening up those stations, whatever, filling them.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I don't know if we'll ever see that up there.	sd	Well at least we're going to have a space station supposedly in the next few years.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

sd	That's all beyond my imagination really.	b	Yeah.

sv	so you never know.	b	yeah,

sv	Any of that stuff from the Jetsons, from that cartoon, that you would never imagine would become possible, and now we have a lot of those,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but as far as me seeing it, you know, I don't know .	b	Yeah.

sv	but I think it's real vital important for the future, you know generations to come,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but when they start showing the drawings and all that, I'm sure, you know, when they,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they'd go up, you know, and do things

qy	So did they scratch that Star Wars deal, you know, they one we was all worried about Russia and all that?	b	Oh.

sv	but the economy the way it is all over, they probably cut back on on that, because it's not,	b	yeah.

sd	I know,	sd	But, Russia's still going to have missiles,

sd	and we don't know who's handling them now	b	Yeah.

sd	so that's a whole different story now.	sd	Latest I heard it was just going to be Russia itself that was going to have them.

bh	really.	h	At least you know, that's what everybody says.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And now they're saying, Yeah,

sv	and one of them crazy crazy guys get a hold of it,	b	Uh huh.

sv	Pretty much.	sv	One hopes.

sv	I think we went through him though to get to Gorbachev on a lot of subjects	b	Uh huh.

sv	But that way, you can't never tell that.	b	Yeah.

qw^d	Type of music is hot down in Texas?	sd	well, I don't know exactly what's hot down in Texas.

sd	mostly folk music.	b^m	Folk music.

sd^e	I find myself, listening to a lot of, either old timer or New England, dance bands as well as, just more popular folk music and new artists coming up.	b	Uh huh.

b	Okay.	sd	I'm more, old rock and roll, some newer, I guess you would call it heavy metal rock and roll type you know, Van Halen, that kind of thing.

qw	what about, classic rock type stations.	sd	I don't listen to the radio at all.

sv	So, some some of the older Eagles stuff was good.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I don't like listening at high volumes.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, some of their older stuff was, you know, quite enjoyable to me.	b	Yeah,

sd	You know, Hotel California and that era.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	aa	You know, definitely.

sd	Well, down in Texas, you know, listen to a little country every now and then.	b	Yeah,

sv	I'm sure there's a lot of that down there.	sv	plenty.

sd	then there's the, Dolly Parton, Hollywood sound.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	But, it's getting pretty big everywhere, as I see it.

sv	I think some of them, the artists are even, hitting the pop charts.	b	Yeah,

sv	I, I think most artists are in to make a few bucks.	b	Yeah,

sv	But they're not in it to say anything or give a message which is what they were do ,	b	Yeah.

sv	late sixties, early seventies, they were they were definitely pushing a message.	aa	Yeah,

sv	at least to my mind, Guns and Roses doesn't have too much to say.	aa	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you hear a Paula Abdul song

b	Right.	sv	Madonna can do anything

b^r	Right.	sd	Madonna could start playing folk music

bf	i , it's the artist, not the merit.	aa	Yeah,

sd	or I don't like it	b	Yeah.

sd	and then if I really like the song, eventually I'll figure out who it was.	b	Yeah.

qy	or do you just buy along the same artist?	ny	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	it's, you know, it's way to hectic and too confusing.

qy	so you keep buying the same artists until you don't like an album, then you stop?	ny	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I listen to it that way,

sd	there's a couple of nice, small coffee houses up in New Jersey.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, so if you like the artist, you buy the album.	b	Yeah.

sd	So you definitely get to try before you buy.	b	Yeah,

b	Okay.	b	yeah.

bf	You were helping your parents.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we've done lots to it.

qy^d	So you're remodeling?	ny	Uh huh.

bk	Okay.	qo	How about you?

sd	two summers ago I went to Massachusetts	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we undertook a building house.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and it's preconstructed you might say.	b^r	Uh huh .

sd	We had to call in the excavators and have them dig the basement. Pour the basement and, went from the ground up.	ba	Wow.

sd	Our one of our main problems was,	ba^r	Wow.

sv	but I thought, gosh, summer time, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And one thing is that we had, we were going to pour the basement foundation.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was sort of sandy and and not, a very good finish.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it was okay.	b	Yeah.

sd	and then we just had like two helpers and sort of a family type,	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was sort of just, you know, get his, you know, my bro , my brother and well, maybe, you know, my cousin's coming over today to help us do that kind of thing. So that the scheduling and everything was kind of hectic sometimes.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and then materials coming in	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's pretty neat.	ba	Nice.

b	Yeah.	ba^r	Nice.

sd	And they live in this old house for something like thirty years or something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And his mom just wanted a new house. You know,	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	So it came really great	ba	That's great.

qy^d	Where you live it gets very hot?	ny	Yeah,

sd	Because the windows are something that is conducive to temperature changes in, you know, the solar game?	b	Right.

qr	what, are you putting in triple glaze or double glaze or,	nn	No.

bk^r	Okay.	sd	see in a lot of the windows?

b	Uh huh.	sd	the house is eighty years old

qy^d	so you have the sash windows in?	ny	Uh huh.

qy	did it go up and down?	ny	Uh huh.

bk	I see.	b	Yeah.

sv	they usually most of the time don't open very well .	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the ones that would open, wouldn't want to stay open .

sd	and it's a never ending problem.	b	Uh huh.

qy	is that true for Atlanta?	ng	Atlanta is kind of high.

sv	that's probably not true only for Atlanta, but for just about anywhere.	b	Yeah.

sv	But mostly petty things and, no, nothing, nothing really too big.	b	Right,

b	Right.	sd	There are some, but not very high.

b	Uh huh.	sv	so that's kind of like a double assault there.

sd	a strange case that happened, oh, it's about a year ago was someone actually stole a complete automated teller machine.	bh	Really?

sd	and they backed up into it with a truck and put it on the back and drove away with it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Now, there's a crime for you.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and I saw an episode of the T V show, COPS one time that was in Pittsburgh,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I don't really think those things happen too often because, like I said, from what's reported in the news, at least, it's not all that common.	b	okay.

b	Yeah.	sd	it's not like, it's someone do steal a or television or V C R or something like that

b^r	Yeah.	sv	so you really not making a sizeable profit.

sd	and, the apartment like would be very easy for just about anyone to break in .	b	Right.

sd	But, even so, I mean, it's, it's still difficult for me to convince my apartment mates to like lock the doors when they go out , you know, and things like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	it would be so easy for someone who is motivated to do so to just, you know, sit out back, take a look at when people are here and when they're not just come in, you know,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and, they could get in pretty easy and especially, since there are bedrooms upstairs and people leave the door open, you know, while they're upstairs playing music,	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	it could still happen then.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and those three guys take the evidence, go off, figure it out and then come back and say whether you're guilty or not.	sv	ou , our judicial system is in such total chaos.

b	Uh huh.	sd	All the people signed confessions,

ba	Wow.	sd	And what they've done is they've bought Mercedes after Mercedes after Mercedes is what they've done,

sv	any jury's not going to disregard the evidence, you know .	aa	that's true.

sd	That may very well be.	sd	I hold it in the utmost contempt.

b	Yeah.	qh	So where do you think they target their efforts?

aa	That's true.	sv	They target their efforts toward the citizens not the criminals.

qo	Well, How would you go about changing it?	sv	I've nailed the problem down

^2	Leave the details up to somebody else,	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think somehow you have to separate the revenues from,

sd	and that's it.	aa	Now, I firmly believe in that

ny	yeah.	sd	And here's this bum that didn't have a job

b	Yeah.	sd	and he's got a attorney that you and I could never afford.

aa	That's true.	qh	Who's paying for that?

sv	well, you, you know, you're talking to part of them that's paying for that .	b	Yeah,

sv	and when you stop and look at it, I mean, the judges, they're all former lawyers.	b	Yeah,

na	Certainly.	bk	Okay.

sd	Well, I tend to, take two kinds of vacations, the vacations to visit family and the vacations to just have a week being cultural and going to the theater and doing sight seeing and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, my favorite is the indulgent ones, where we go off and, see places that have interested me since I was a kid, for the most part.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're moving to Florida.	bk	Okay.

sv	you just have to go once a year.	b	Yep,

sd	and then about once every three or four years I try to get over to England, because I lived there for a while, some years back.	ba	Wow.

b	Oh.	sd	and I'd love to go back.

sv	beautiful people.	b	Yeah,

sd	and I'd real, really like to go because, I'm fairly recently married	sd	we had a great time.

qo	How about yourself?	sd	Well, we, as you do, take family vacations, sometimes one a year,

sd	I've never, been on a cruise.	sd	And we, we really love cruises.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, we've gone fairly inexpensive as most cruises go.

b	Yeah.	sd	And we get upgraded.

sd	I've never been on a cruise.	sd	my God, you do everything.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And that's quite fun.

qw	And where have you been on these cruises?	sd	Nassau, San Juan, Saint Thomas.

b	I see.	sd	And then we went to, the western Caribbean, which is, Port, Cancun, Cozumel, and Ocho Rios.

bf	the Mexican coast.	br	Pardon me?

bf	That's all Mexico, I think.	aa	Yes,

qw	Where are you from originally?	sd	We're from Illinois originally.

bk	Uh huh.	sd	And we've been down in Texas eighteen years,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	And that's fun.

b	yes.	sv	things are different there, though.

sd	so I mean, it's not like I'm going home.	bh	Did you?

sd	My, my parents retired first to San Diego,	b	Uh huh.

fe	thank God,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	They've been there eight years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, you know, I just grab the car and drive everywhere.	ba	that's great.

sv	It's so funny.	sv	they, they really are.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My husband would, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I like all of that.

qw	What's the best part, from your point of view?	sd	I like seeing other countries and shopping in other places.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like shopping.

ba	that will be nice.	sd	So I'm kind of looking forward to that, except I hate to see them go.

ad	Well, don't go in the winter.	sd	that's what everybody says,

b	Oh.	sd	So that will be hard to stay away from.

sd	Well, there are exceptions made for special occasions like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	But the ordinary thing is to stay out of the north in the winter and get out of Texas in the summer	aa	Isn't that the truth,

sv	I guess I would contemplate going on a cruise, all circumstances permitting it.	sd	Well, there's all age groups too,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You may meet people, you know, thirty years older than you, or younger,

qw	How long are the cruises?	sd	we've only gone on the seven day cruises.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They have shorter ones

b	Yeah.	sv	I think most vacations, seven days is enough for us.

sd	I, go for a long time.	b	Yeah.

ba	that's interesting.	sd	Went to Panama last August.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Our son in law is from Panama.

b	Oh.	sd	And, we went with our daughter and son in law to visit his parents, who live there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And his father is a doctor

ba	That's really nice.	sv	And it is gorgeous.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, it's just, it's just a gorgeous country.

sv	Well, maybe now things are calming down again. That will happen.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, that's really great.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, as I said, basically all I've done is go back and forth to parents	ba	Well, that's, that's pretty good.

sd	so we spent a week in L A	qy	do you like L A?

o	Okay.	b^m	Okay,

sd	I have one seven and one five	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I'm happy with it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't really think that's fair. You know.	b	Uh huh.

ad	so, go ahead .	b	Well, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I grew up in New York

ba	Wow.	sd	or not New York City, upstate New York

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I went to, the City of Rochester School District

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and a lot of my friends were in one of the neighboring suburbs

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	and, one of the things that probably would have been better is if the entire county had just one school system.

b	Right.	sv	And that could result in more equitable distribution of money

b	Uh huh.	sv	As a result, the schools were rundown,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	so you know, I think that one of the ways to, to help schools in general, and get them all to a minimum level of, of competency almost, would be to expand the size of school districts so you get a wider variety of people,

b	Right .	sv	So, you know it's kind of, you end up chasing, like a dog chasing its own tail sort of.

sd	All these kids have these really supportive parents, always up there for something.	b	Yeah.

sd	and the parents might not could even tell you what their kid's teacher's name is. You know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	as far as their learning, I mean, if the parents aren't, you know, willing to go with the kids and find out what they're learning and if they're learning you know, they really don't have much of a chance at all.	b	Uh huh.

br	Huh?	qw^r	Why is that?

sd	and the kids are not motivated.	b	Right.

sv(^q)	and, there's nobody to sit them down and say, you're going to do this.	b^r	Right.

sv	and they can't just have it at school and then come home	b	Uh huh.

sv	and there's nothing, you know.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	ended up getting some scholarships to go to college you know, which is really nice,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	and I think the difference for me was that you know, they were definitely, they were always there,

b	Yeah.	^q	yeah,

fp	Hello Ann.	fp	Hello Chuck.

sd	the other day, I attended a conference here at Utah State University on recycling	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I was kind of interested to hear cause they had some people from the E P A and lots of different places	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, they had basically decided that there is going to be a real problem here within a few years on solid waste.	sv	I didn't think that was a new revelation.

aa	Well, it's not too new.	b	Right.

sv	Actually, the guy was pretty negative about the things that the government was doing even though he was from the E P A	b	Uh huh.

sd	He was talking about, the City of New York and how they went and collected all this news print	b	Yeah.

sd	and now at this stage of the game where they have gotten into recycling, they've collected so much news print that they have to pay to have it hauled away.	b	Right.

sd	We're doing some here in Cash Valley, the community here.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We've got a couple of plants here that actually take, recycled paper and shred it and spray it with chemical treatment so that it's not a fire hazard and make it into insulation	b	Right.

sd	and they can actually use as much recycled paper as the community can get to them. Because they are actually buying it and shipping it in from outside.	ba	Well, that's good.

sv	So one of the real keys, it sounds like, to getting recycling for, paper or something like that to go is to get some sort of business to actually want it once you have collected it.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, I think they are even putting it in the roadways these days

sd	but the basic idea, it was presented to him was how can we maximize the amount of energy that we can get back from recycling and minimize the volume of stuff that we are putting into our landfill	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	he says, well the best thing to do with plastics is to burn them.	b	really.

sd	He came to the conclusion, plastics is actually one of the biggest problems in landfills cause it's low weight, but it's high volume so it takes up a lot of space	b	Right.

sd	So his solution was to burn plastic. Collect it and burn it.	sd	Well, it's carbon

sd	Well he didn't deal with that.	b	Oh.

sd	He just said burn it.	b	Okay .

sv	So it's not very practical .	aa	No.

sv	well, real interesting.	qy	Did it change anything for you?

sd	You are legal in your circumvention of that law.	qw	what if you're not doing it in order to circumvent the law though?

qh	why should an individual just because the state can't really find out about it, be able to avoid paying sales tax?	sv	Well, I mean, it seems to me that, generally, at least in my own experience, when I purchase something mail order, it's not to circumvent paying sales tax to the State of Pennsylvania.

b	Yes.	sv	it's because I can't find the item that I want at a competitive price anywhere in my local area.

qy	with something like that, do your arguments still apply?	no	Well, I think that if policy is established and if a mechanism is put into place to promote the collection of taxes in this fashion, then I don't argue with it.

sd	Which is exactly what businesses do at the present.	aa	Right.

sd	And there are some substantial, nasty penalties, if businesses try to avoid that.	qr	do you mean businesses from the point of view of selling things to a consumer and then being responsible for the sales tax? Or purchasing.

sd	And I know they work that way say here in D C.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, my only experience has been from the point of view of a consumer.

qr	Do you know anyone that, is in a nursing home or has ever been in one?	nn	No.

b	Uh huh.	b^m	Uh huh.

sd	I mean she sort of went, you know, bananas	bf	they thought it was too much of a bother.

sd	So, I guess you need to, know whether it's you know, a no deposit, no return kind of thing whether ,	aa	Right.

aa	Yeah.	sd	Because I know my grandparents wanted to have some independence still.

b	Right.	sd	They wanted some place they can go and have their meals and a nurse on staff just in case they needed her

sd	so for, the first few years she had her own apartment and, you know, made her own meals sometimes. But could also go and eat someplace else.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I think the average length of time that somebody lives in a nursing home is only like six months or something.	sv	Well a lot of it's probably to do with the fact that people go to it because they need help.

b	Yeah.	sd	They need health care

b	Right.	sv	That's probably a large factor.

sv	Then you only go there as a last resort.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Or people send you there as a last resort.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that was their thinking.

b	Right.	sd	And also so they could find someplace that they enjoyed while they still had choices to make. So they wouldn't be stuck going into just whatever nursing home was available at the time.

b^r	Right.	sv	I guess that's a problem too for people. Wait lists and all.

h	I guess.	sv	you can't always get in when you want too

sv	When you need it, you need it I guess.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	At that stage of life you only have so much money left

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean it is kind of fair,

b	Sure.	sv	So it's another problem.

sv	And if it were you, you probably wouldn't want someone choosing a place for you to live based on lowest price.	aa	Right,

sv	Well maybe that's the purpose of the nursing home is to have them go someplace where they can see that it's not worth continuing.	sv	It's just a shame that's the way it has to be.

b	Yeah.	sv	and cause like if your spouse died, all alone, it'd be nice to go someplace with people similar to you. To have friends.

qy	are you married, or ...	ny	Yeah,

bk	You are.	sd	I have two children,

b	Oh.	sd	so I try to spend as much time as possible with them.

qw	what kind of things do you do?	sd	Well, we do a lot of things with them, you know,

b	Oh.	qy	was it a big change in your life, to, have a child.

sd	but, I'm staying home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm just working a couple days a month,	b^r	uh huh.

sd	and we go	sd	Well you said you worked a couple days a month, though,

aa^r	yeah.	qw	what do you do?

sd	I'm a nurse.	bh	are you?

sd^e	so it's, it's real easy to work out my schedule, you know, to, to still stay in with that, and to have enough time to spend with Matthew.	b	Uh huh.

sd	he's, just now really starting to get interested in a lot of things,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah .	sd	But my wife was,

b	yeah.	sv	You know, to go from, you know, nothing, you know,

sv	and, I think it's really hurting, the kids, you know,	b	Yeah,

sv	I think it's, it gives me a break.	b	Yeah.

b	yeah.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and, I think that was really ideal,	aa	Yeah,

sv	it's difficult,	qy	are you from the Maryland area?

sd^e	I've, I've lived here forever,	bh	Really.

qw	where are you from?	sd	I'm in Dallas, Texas.

b	oh.	b	Yeah,

b	yea ,.	b	yeah,

sd	so that explains.	b	Yeah,

sd	we, we do a lot of things on the weekends together, the family,	b	Yeah,

sd	but, as far as during the week, it's usually, you know, just my son and I,	b	Yeah,

sd	he works for Coca Cola.	bk	Uh huh.

sd	So he manages a plant out here,	b	Oh.

sd	and it takes a lot of time.	b	yeah,

sd	we take walks, and go to the library, and try to fill our day with things like that,	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh.	sd	and so that got me to be able to spend more time with the kids at night and stuff, you know, 'cause normally if they need something they just go to mom. No matter what it is,

b	Yeah .	sd	I mean, I'm perfectly capable of doing it for them,

b	Right.	sv	I guess they get used to it.

sd	and he works about an hour and a half away from our home,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it takes him a little bit of time.	b	yeah.

sd	I was working in the evening,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, their relationship, when I was able to work in the evenings, really grew.	b	Yeah.

sd	just the time that they were spending together,	b	Yeah.

sv	I think it really, it really helped to have that time together.	aa	Uh huh,

sd^e	he has seven other brothers and sisters,	b	Oh.

sd	well his parents have thirteen grandchildren.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he really enjoys it.	b	Yeah,

sd	But, right now it's kind of a difficult time,	b^r	Yeah.

sv	and the cost of living here is just so tremendously, you know, outrageous .	b^r	Yeah,

sv	it's difficult, to do it any other way.	b^r	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	it's hard because, you know,

aa	That's right.	b	So, yeah,

sv	at least, I just consider myself blessed that I can stay home .	b	Uh huh,

ba	I know .	sd	So she's had about enough during those days,

ba^r	I know.	sv	like what you said with the cost of living and everything, I think a lot of people can't afford to get by on just one salary an and won't.

b^r	Yeah.	sv	And so I think that's tended to lead to a decline in families and family values especially.

sv	it has.	sv	And I really think that that's one of the problems the nation's facing that, you know, we need to do something about,

sv	and I think, the kids are where they need to, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	they need to really focus on the children in this country.	b^r	Yeah.

sd^e	I didn't even really think about it that much, I mean, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, it wasn't really that important to me,	b^r	Uh huh,

bf	seeing how you really are, are forming this, you know, the mind .	aa	Uh huh.

aa	That's right.	sd(^q)	and, you think, if I wasn't here he'd be learning that from a baby sitter or from a day care.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, that's how they're developing their patterns.

^2	or they just put it in the back of their mind and let it slide.	aa	Yeah.

sd(^q)	I've seen a lot of people just say well, you know, he'll learn everything when he gets into, you know,	b	Yeah

sd	I can just see how much, of a difference it makes staying home with him, instead of, ,	b	Uh huh,

sv	that's true.	fc	Well it's been nice talking to you.

fc	Well it's nice talking to you, too.	fc	Okay

fc	Okay.	fc	Okay,

qo	so, what do you think, about putting the elderly in a nursing home?	sv	Well, I think that it varies on the individual basis.

b	Uh huh .	sd	you do not have, family available or family that's,

aa	Yeah.	sv	So, sometimes it's not an alternative.

b	Uh huh.	sv	especially if it's after an acute illness.

sd	I never thought of that.	sv	you know, sometimes the nursing homes are good for, just short periods of time.

bf	until they get over that hump of whatever it is they're dealing with.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	They don't like to keep them longer than a week.	sv	So so there is some good to it.

b	Yeah.	sv	sometimes too, it's used as a dumb job.

br	What do you mean?	sv	and they don't want to take the responsibility

sv	that's true.	o	So you see,

sv	and it depends on how sick the person is too. What you're capable of, like if you have a family to take care of, you know, of your own .	b	Yeah.

sv	That's not always possible.	aa	That's true.

sd	But, to the best of my ability, I'd like to do it until it gets impossible .	sv	I think that's also where you're going to have a lot of people who are going to,

b	Yeah.	sd	So that option sometimes is not available if they do not have either Medicare or insurance to cover it.

sv	You know, you need to check them out ahead of time.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know some.

b	Yeah,	sv	And you need a special nursing home for that.

b	Yeah.	sv	and you need people who are trained for that type of problem.

bf	Who know what they're doing with that.	aa	Yeah

sd	She's not ill yet	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, she really enjoys it right now because she doesn't have to wash dishes or cook .	bf	Gives her a little bit of her own independence

aa	Uh huh.	bf	but she still has, a security there.

sd	and then, so if she ever does become ill, it will be like family around her.	ba	That's right

b	Yeah.	sd	and also they have a lot of, activities going on for the ones who are more active.

b	Yeah.	sv	So it's not sort of like, a sick place.

sd	and, I hope that I have something like that when I get older .	b	Yeah

aa	definitely it's,	sd	and, you know, sometimes those choi , those choices can be made in advance

qy	Do you ever think that there's a crime that's just so heinous and so bad that the person who commits this crime just doesn't deserve to live anymore?	^h	That's a good question.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, try and figure out what would be a suitable punishment.

sd	but, even in that, situation he would hope that there would be people around him who would, keep him from doing the things.	sv	it's a question of your gut reactions to something like that versus an intelligent reason response.

aa	exactly.	sv	and that was the thing that, killed Dukakis back, four years ago when someone asked him a similar question

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that the people who are strongly in favor of the death penalty are really working from that gut level.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think people are working at that from more of a gut reaction than a reason humane one.

sd	if you put someone to death you obviously, can't reform them.	aa	That's true.

sd	they saw other horse thieves hanging by the necks every once in a while.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I would think you'd make a bigger impact on their life rather than, you know, telling them that there's protestors out here at the, you know.	sv	Well, I don't know if that would really work that way or not.

qw	but if you had, parents say or, or grandparents, whatever it is, who were ready, who you thought might benefit from a nursing home, what do you think you would look for?	sd	well actually my dad's, my dad's almost ninety

b	Yeah.	sd	but, some friends of mine have, gone through this.

b	Yeah.	qy	Do you have any experience with this yourself?

sd	Well my wife's grandmother is in a nursing home in, Minnesota	b	Uh huh.

sd	When we visit Minnesota though we go to see her.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So it's hard to tell how much of that rubs off on those who are struggling to retain, clarity, say, you know .	bf^g	From the lack of stimulation, you mean.

sv	It's, must be depressing to walk the halls an , and see all these other people who really don't know where they are.	qy	Do you think that in the case of the one that you've actually had some experience with, that the people who operate it seem to have, what you'd perceive of as genuine concern?

sd	I think sometimes, you know, I've noticed, some of the patients asking for things, just repetitively but things that are not reasonable,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and so it looks to me like maybe their not catering to this person's needs is really because this person you know, is just in a state where they don't really need what they think they need, you know.	aa	Yeah.

sd	but these two were.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And when you walked into their room, they had brought all their furniture from their house	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it must also give them a sense of, security and, and, and, you know, s ,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	But I also know a couple of people whose parents have gone into such things because I think they provide, a lot of social activities.

b	Yeah.	sd	one of my friend's parents who went in because she had largely lost her abilities

sd	that's, that's new to me.	sv	Well I think t , it was sort of on the grounds that they were considering whether she would live there

qr	Do you, mostly get things from T V or .	ny	Yes.

sd	I am fairly knowledgeable of .	sd	well DOW JONES for example cause the news wire

sv	That's interesting.	sd	and it's picked up and actually available, at my office,

qrr	or is it something that is, a little bit different from that?	sd	Well, it's similar to that,

qy	do you read any news magazines or anything like that for sort of like a broader, like more long term analytical sort of approach?	ng	well actually not.

b	Yeah .	sv	I'd like to say however, that I'm overwhelmingly disappointed with the media in general except for the raw news wires .

qr	in sort of like, quality or sort of an orientation in terms of like, view point or the way the news is presented or whatever?	sv	I think that it has to do with,

bf	Like a liberal type of bias.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	and, the other thing that I always notice is that whenever they write about something that I'm an expert in, I find their descriptions to be wrong

sv	they generally make mistake on anything technical at least .	aa	That's right.

qrr	or do you think they are deliberate sorts of things?	sv	I think both.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	So, to give you an example, we will go out of the printing media.

ba	That's disturbing.	sd	I mean he does that.

sd	you know, but I don't usually.	b	Yeah,

sv	if you just watched it during the Gulf War, that probably wouldn't tell you much.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, if at a particular time, you wanted to get the latest and greatest news you could do that by, turning on C N N

fp	Hello?	fp	Hi.

sd	my name is Leslie.	fp^m	Hi,

qw	And where are you from?	sd	Pennsylvania.

sd	I'm from Dallas, Texas.	bh	really?

ny	Yeah,	ba	that's neat.

qy	Well, did you understand you know, what it was for, what we,	qy^d	television shows?

ny	Yeah .	b	Sure,

sd	but we can try it.	b	Okay.

qy	Are you ready to start?	na	Sure am.

ad	just a minute .	b	Okay,

b	okay.	qw	What are your favorite television shows?

sd	Well, I don't really watch too many T V shows other than, occasionally I'll turn on DONAHUE because it comes on in the morning when I seem to be getting ready around here.	bh	really?

sd	and then I think I enjoy when I catch it, I don't even know what night it's on, but DESIGNING WOMEN sometimes,	sv	I love that show.

qy	do you? .	ny	Yes,

sd	And then there's a new one that started out that I've caught a couple of times called GOOD AND EVIL, I think.	sd	I heard they just canceled that.

bh	really?	sd	I read in today's paper they just canceled that show.

sv	I guess I watch it more out of the uniqueness of it and the time that it comes on more than the fact that I have to see it.	qy	Have you seen the show, it's new this year, called HOME FRONT?

sd^e	I haven't watched that.	sv	it's really good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's set in post World War Two times

b	yeah.	sv	It's kind of like a nighttime soap opera type thing.

ba	Sounds neat.	sv	it's a good, it's really well written.

qw	Is that on, what station?	sd	I don't even know, to tell you the truth .

qw	What other shows do you like?	sd	I prefer OPRAH WINFREY to DONAHUE .

sd	and I usually have kids around so I don't end up watching that one is the only problem I have with it, I guess.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah .	sd(^q)	and now when I watch them, I think, why did I ever watch those?

aa	That's right .	sv	They're stupid .

b	Yeah.	sd	So when I did watch them I was addicted to them every day.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But not anymore.

qo	So do you know of any other shows in the even, or something that you enjoy?	sd	tonight I'm looking forward to seeing GOLDEN GIRLS.

sv	that's always fun.	aa	Yes,

b	Yeah.	sd	And if I can stay up late enough, I like to catch SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE every now and then.

b	uh huh.	sd	And right now we're watching a Penn State football game because that's where we live.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's exciting,

sd	I also, course, like to catch the news during the evening hours	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, usually I don't get a whole lot of news watching in.	b	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We'll catch our news that way.

qw	So what have you seen interesting on OPRAH WINFREY lately?	sd	Lately, I haven't been catching it because of my work schedule.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't remember the last time I saw it.

aa	that's right.	sd	Well, today on C N N they were talking about something like this about, learning to recognize voices and words and stuff and the research that's going on which is kind of what we're doing, helping them get a data base for words.

b	yeah.	sv	It was really interesting.

aa	It is interesting.	qy	Do you work for Texas Instruments?

sd^e	just, doing this as a fund raiser for our church.	ba	that's nice.

sd	so it kind of makes it easy, you know, to do a little something for it.	b	Sure,

qo	, how do you feel about it?	sv	Well, they do have, a major internal problem .

qo	What's your synopsis? .	sd	Well, I do realize that, the Bush Administration isn't too happy with how they're handling their internal, strife, you know, as far as diplomacy is concerned .

sd	I think that it went up a thousand percent on most,	b	yeah.

sd	but I don't know how convinced the people are of him yet, myself.	sv	Well, that's all they got right now.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, you know, they'll go with , you know, whoever comes through for them.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think he had to pull in the reins the only way he knew how, in order to keep the peace on both sides.

sd	I understand.	sv	And that's the situation that he finds himself in,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I just think that because of the basic needs that the people don't have,

sd	but somehow it just does not get out to the market the way it should.	sv	I think it's a lot of, oh, how do you put it? , bureaucracy and, one thing, and then all the corruption.

sv	That's probably more true than, a lot of people realize.	sv	I I know you're going to have that with every society.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but if it gets to a point where people can't , survive, I mean, there's revolution. You know,

sv	It seems to be headed in that direction too.	aa	Yeah ,

o@	Uh huh. Well, their knowledge , with, better communication processes in this world now that's reached them is more educated to the, ways of the western world,	sv@	Anyway, I really question, though, how much technology the average Soviet is exposed to.

sv	but I'm sure I lot of it's filtered down enough to the common folks that they have gotten wind , of what they're missing out on.	b	Yeah,

sv	I'm sure a lot of them are missing those household items .	b	Yeah,

sv	what we consider just, , normal everyday things to them is real luxury. Which is unfortunate for them,	b	Yeah .

sv	and of course, most of us, we don't really appreciate what we've got because we've been so used to it.	aa	This is true.

aa	I agree .	qy	So the original question, do we think their you know, a security threat?

ny	Yeah.	no	yes and no.

sv	but I don't even see that occurring. because their internal strifes are more important right now than concentrating on any kind of outside affairs that they used to be adapted to I guess.	aa	no.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they put their pants on the same way,

o	Okay, well,	qw	What kind of music do you like?

sd	and, I like, a lot of of course the classics, everything back from Bach and Beethoven and Chopin and, just in general everything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I enjoy, a lot of the modern forms,	qy	Do you like, like rock and those kind of things punk even.

sv	and, has a lot to say, or some of it has a lot to say, the lyrics do,	ar	I don't think they have a whole lot to say, even .

sv	well, it's, it's, it really expresses some of the opinions of the people who enjoy the music	am	Yeah,

sv	but as far as a musical art form, I just don't see a whole lot of art to it .	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they usually do a lot of satire	b	Yeah

b	Right.	sv	Some of it is kind of pointless,

^2	the monotonous the monotonous,	aa	yeah.

sd(^q)	I don't enjoy that at all when they're just talking about, well, I'm better than you, and blah, blah, blah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't like that.	b	Yeah,

sv	and then some of it actually gets into some serious discussions of problems in our, in urban society.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	It talks about, race relations and police relations	sd	I guess I don't really care to listen to rap that much except for once in a while some of the funny more satire kind some times.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm, with you though,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I don't like to listen to it all the time, but, some of the time, anyway.

sd	that's about my opinion of that .	b	yeah .

sv	it's okay,	sd	Some of it kind of falls in the rap category I guess,

sv	The thing about country western that I don't enjoy is, doesn't seem to be any imagination behind it	b	Yeah.

sv	one country and western song sounds like every other, country and western	sv	a lot of them, sound, really similar,

sv	They just play a certain number of chords	b	Yeah.

sv	and you have a country and western song	sv	Well, that's kind of the way I feel about rock and roll sometimes, too, I guess.

b	 Right.	sv	you can't understand what they're saying on some of those songs which probably is just as well on some of them, too.

sd	And I can't say that I like a lot of the very, very modern, rock and roll,	b	Yeah.

sd	but I definitely, I really enjoy the fifties, the sixties and some of the seventies rock and roll	b^r	Yeah

o	Okay.	sd	I say they,

bf	A a good, a good southern solution.	aa	Yeah.

sd	the things they asked to talk about were whether the judge should be the one that does the, sentencing.	b	Uh huh.

h	at least, my understanding of the law which isn't very good.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think that's probably all right in that they, you know, maybe know what the norm is for a particular thing.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sv	Probably more tuned in to that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm kind of undecided on that whether the judge should have the sole,

qy	doesn't the jury decide on the death penalty rather than the judge?	na	I think that's, I think that's the way it is.

b	Yeah.	sd	they, they decide whether or not the accused or whatever would get the death penalty.

sd^e	In fact, they're going to execute somebody at the end of this month.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, there's a big uproar going on right now.	b	Yeah.

sd	the, Governor, you know, has been trying to decide whether he's going to commute it or not.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, it's someone who had, killed two teenage boys here in San Diego as a matter of fact.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	I guess the way I think about it it shouldn't necessarily be thought of as revenge.

b	Uh huh.	ad	put it to sleep, you know.

bf	Something inexpensive.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I think this particular case has been like ten or fifteen years.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you'd hate to be one of those.	aa	Yeah.

sd	The other thing they asked about was whether the verdict should be required to be unanimous. Which, again, I think is the way it is now. That all verdicts,	b	Uh huh.

sv	At least in capital cases I'd think they'd have to be unanimous.	sd	I believe it is in capital.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I believe that's the way it is.

sd	The paper here tonight had a thing about the Noriega trial. And that there's one juror that is, different than the other eleven.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they say they're hopelessly deadlocked.	ba	no .

sd	And the judge told them , they weren't hopelessly deadlocked yet .	ad	I'm telling you, go one way or the other.

sd	Six months so far they said.	b	Yeah.

sd	Maybe they could go with a nine hundred number and have people dial in and give their, vote.	b	Yeah .

b	Right.	sd	That has been going on .

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

sv	That's interesting.	b	Yeah,

qy	Well have you ever served on a jury?	nn	No

sd	but I, never, got selected for a jury ,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I sat for ten days in a court room while they went through the selection process,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they had some guy that was, defending himself.	b	Uh huh.

nd	Well.	sv	I don't really think that it's, too many,

qy^d	I mean suppose they found out some other way?	sv	Well, I think I think the problem here is that a drug test does not necessarily imply that someone is taking drugs or not taking drugs.

b	Yeah.	sv	There's too many cases where it can, you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	like I said, some industries, though, I think it'd be very necessary,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	But, I just, I find it to be pretty offensive that it's such a big deal.

qy	But, have you ever been in a situation where you were drug tested	ny	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I. I mean, I was very offended by the whole process.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean it's very humiliating,

sv	and I just thought it was dumb of the company, at a point where they were trying to convince me to want to work for them to do this,	b	Right.

sd(^q)	and I'm just like, well, I'm not even going to think much about it if you're going to treat me with this much respect even before you've gotten to know me.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	just to the fact that I don't know that it is a company's business to regulate what it's employees are doing when they're not at work.

sv	well like you say, I mean, if it's not a critical kind of job where someone could get hurt, then really I mean, the, the employer ought to be judging you on how well you do your work rather than on these other factors.	b	Right.

sv	And, I mean, if you are doing drugs and it's causing a problem, then they'll notice it for other reasons.	aa	That's exactly right.

b	Yeah.	sv	And also I just think it gets a lot,

qy	Well, do you think it's, should be illegal for an employer to do this	na	I really think it should be, except as I've mentioned twice now, in the specified industries or jobs, because there are certain things where it's just vital that a person is clear minded at all times.

b	Yeah.	sv	And other than that I do not think it should be allowable.

sv	but an employer, really, I think, has the right to hire someone on any basis they want to	b	Right.

sv	and if they say they don't want smokers, I sort of feel like an employer should have the right to decide whether they want to allow that.	b^r	Right.

sd	So, the topic is hobbies .	^2	In your spare time.

sd	I used to do, like salt ornaments and things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But that was, good many years ago	b	Yeah.

sd	and that's, about it .	b^r	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I, I can't really say that we have hobbies.

sd	Well, well, that's what I meant by salt that we did that like as a family, little ornaments and, things like that, and just kind of really got into it. Like during the Christmas season, making them up for other people and things like that.	b	Oh.

sd	I've just never been very skilled at, far, you know, needle, work cloths.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And the things I've tried to do just don't look very good ,	sd	I guess mostly as far as crafts go, I've done, some needlepoint.

b	Yeah.	sd	and then you have a little picture of them

b	Uh huh.	sd	but nothing steady.

bf	It's not, like you sit and knit every night .	aa	No.

sd	and my mother used to knit, you know, all the time	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm like, that's a lost art from this family .	b	Yeah.

h	it feels like, if, you know,	aa	No.

sd	I have seen things I really like, you know, that were done, especially like needlepoint.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Needlepoint, cushions and things.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, it just seems like there'd be so much time involved in it, you know, and that the petty point and things like that.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	God, it, it seems like it's easier just to go out and buy it already made .	sd	I don't know what, is,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, you know, you can go to like a flea market and stuff

b^r	Yeah.	sd	and then on weekends they go out and sell it

bf	And see, they do that as their job. Whereas, you know, for us it,	aa	Right .

sd	and they make it cheaper for us to buy .	aa	Yeah .

sv	you felt very creative.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, it just was time, involved, you know, so much time involved and the different steps and things.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	b	Okay.

sd	I hope you have a good rest of your weekend.	ft	Thanks.

br	Well, what were you saying?	b	Okay.

b	okay.	ad	do you want to go ahead and start?

sd	and I haven't really gone out, and bought any or listened to much on the radio except for classical	qy	Well, you like classical music?

ny	Yes.	sd	I like classical music.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like country and western .

b	Okay.	sd	I like all kinds .

sd	Well, I like most of them except for country music.	qy^d	you don't like country?

sd	but I don't like listening to it.	sd	the kind of country I like is kind of the older country music. not the kind like Kenny Rodgers and stuff like that.

b	Oh.	sv	that's a little bit to,

qw	what's the old country music like?	sd	like Hank Williams.

bk	okay.	sv	this stuff, makes you cry it sounds so sad .

qy^g	That's the kind you like you mean?	ny	Yeah.

sv	and I guess you could say it's similar as far as the way they do it.	aa	Yes.

sd	and, most rap I don't like.	b^m	Yeah.

b	okay.	sd	And I can barely watch anymore because, they have this heavy metal stuff on there

b	Yeah.	sd	and I liked, Aerosmith and Led Zepplin and, you know, and, jeez who else is there. Van Halen.

b	Yeah.	sd	Now I like groups like that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, some of these groups now like Slaughter .

sd	I really haven't listened to that .	sv	Some of them are just really rough.

sd	I've been pretty busy.	b	Okay.

sd	but I don't do that anymore either .	b	I see.

nn	No .	bk	Okay .

sd	I've just been real busy with lots of other things.	qw	Well, how old are you?

sd	Twenty eight.	bk	Okay.

sd	Changed directions.	bk	okay.

qw	How old are you?	sd	I'm, twenty eight .

h	Put it that way.	b	rea ,

ny	Yes.	b	I see.

sd	But I know what I like when I like a sound. A certain kind of sound,	sd	My parents were very musical.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My father likes, country western music.

b	Okay.	sd	He's from, West Virginia.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he's always liked it

b^r	yeah.	sd	so he likes that.

b	really.	sd	She always had these old Doris Day records and stuff like that, though.

b	well.	sd	So, you know, I grew up listening to that stuff.

b	Yeah.	sv	But, you know, I could see why you were kind of sheltered I guess from music.

sd	Well, I do play the piano, you know .	b	okay.

sd	But, I like the, early seventies, late sixties rock. Kind of stuff, the old stuff.	b	okay.

qw	does what songs does he play?	sd	THIS LOVE CUTS LIKE A KNIFE. SUMMER OF SIXTY NINE.

sd	I think I've heard SUMMER OF SIXTY NINE.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	he's from Canada.

sd	I'm not very good at remembering the, titles,	^2	The titles and artists.

b	Yeah.	qr	Well, do do you watch music television, M T V at all? Or V H One?

sd^e	I don't watch T V much at all.	bk	Okay.

nn	No.	b	Oh,

nn^r	No.	sd	you have to get cable to get those stations anyhow.

b	Yeah.	b	But, yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like watching that kind of thing.

sd	but she's from Ireland.	nn	No,

sd	And, she's been on like the top ten, I guess, or whatever.	b	really.

qy	Kathy?	ny	Uh huh.

qo	what do you usually do as far as budgeting?	sd	We have a very detailed budget. Because my husband is a finance major.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you know, we have money that we take out each month you know, for food and for gas and things like that.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	Then we take our major purchases we want to make during that year

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And so, the things like a vacation.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and we're continually putting into those, you know, each month how much we're going to need

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	So we very rarely buy anything on credit.

sd	So we're, budgeting, each month, an allowance for his education starting now.	b	Right.

sd	So you know, an, exact amount that we spend on that each year.	b	Right.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	If we actually pull it out and keep it in a safe here.

b	I see.	sd	And we actually pull out the money each month that we want to put in for birthdays, that we want to put in for, the vacation. That we put in for Christmas.

qy	Like you have a separate account for that then?	h	Well, a lot of that, I don't know how safe it is.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so it's actually pulled out.

b	I see.	sd	we have a savings account for the kids' education.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we have three children.

b	I see.	sd	That money is put into each month.

qy	does he invest in that and for long term?	no	He does somewhat.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we have an investment plan.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, we have really found,

bf	It's vacations, Christmas.	sd	Christmas, birthdays, car maintenance, dental, medical,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so now when we have to come up with that deductible that our insurance doesn't cover rather than wondering where it's going to come from,

b	Right.	sd	we have it, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And when we see something on sale, instead of just looking in our checking account and saying well we've got enough and getting it, and then when something comes up, you know, kind of scrimping to pay for a medical bill. Everything's taken care of.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And we're finding that we even have more money than we thought.

bh	Really.	ny	Yeah .

qy	do you, run the family budget as far as, groceries and that sort of thing?	na	I do.

br	And what's that?	sd	All the money is turned over to me.

qo	or or how do you work that?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so then that can go, you know, either back into our checking account

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	you know, there are certain months of the year that you'll spend more on food than other months. And certain times when that will be left over.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	But that's completely up to me how I do that.

sd	I stay home also.	sd	And so it's kind of my money

b	Uh huh.	sd	We have a clothing, envelope for each of the kids and for myself and my husband that we put how much we figure we need each month on clothing.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	It really works out great.

qy	do you have like a household?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And also, we need a new bed.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And if we find one on sale before then, then we can just take that and put it towards ,

qw	and so what do you think, next to salary do you rank, is the most important job benefits?	sv	I would say the medical, group insurance area as far as, covering medical costs for yourself or family members.

qy	Well, does your company have good benefits in that regard?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so it's different than a company where most companies fund almost the entire thing,

b	yeah.	sd	But overall, I've been pleased with it over the years.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think the biggest frustration is because of the cost of insurance going up every year, our district has had to you know, change companies,

b	I see.	qo	How about yourself?

sd	my medical coverage is with an H M O	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it seems to be a good way to maintain costs and still provide a good amount of coverage.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I did have surgery last summer

b	Right.	sd	But, again, I was fortunate because my doctor agreed to be in it.

sd	three years ago is when I first got into full time employment	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, for me it's worked out real good.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I'm sure it would be very stressful

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	but your benefits are not as, you know, good,

sd	I work for, Georgia Tech in the research branch,	b	all right.

sv	and I guess another one that I rank up there high is the, kind of job flexibility and time off, I enjoy as a benefit.	aa	I do too.

na	Right	b^m	Right.

bf	getting a lot of breaks between quarters and that, and having a lot of vacation.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It is just, Texas has really, you know,

b	Right.	qw	What do you do there?

sd	and that's who I work with.	bk	Okay.

sd	We can kind of pursue our own interests in terms of the research areas that we study.	ba	Well, that's good.

aa	Right.	sv	and, it's good that they allow you that.

aa^r	Right.	sd	as I say, the schools,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's the only reason I work there, is that my children now have and graduated from college

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I've just continued to, stay there .

sd	I've never had random drug testing.	b	Yeah,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, they have done some testing around our office, mostly after lunch, looking for people drinking beer and stuff at lunch time,

qy^d	they do with alcohol.	br	Pardon?

qy^r	They do it with alcohol?	ny	Yeah,

sv	I thought it was just like marijuana or cocaine.	ar	No,

ba	That's interesting.	b	Yeah,

qw	What type of field of work are you in?	sd	I'm in the oil business.

b^m	in the oil business.	aa	Yeah.

qy^d	and you work in the office around.	ny	Yeah,

sd	see, I work in the automotive air bag industry, where we make the safety bags for the cars,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and we work around a lot of explosives.	sv	Well, that sounds like kind of an important job to be, straight on.

sv	but still, it can be dangerous.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	as long as it's not abused, you know, random, you know,

qr	Now do they fire them, or do they?	^h	Well, see, this is it,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	But if they catch you, if you test positive for a controlled substance, then you get fired.

ba	wow.	sv	So, you know, it's sort of one of these little catch twenty twos.

h	I'm not really sure what the ,	b	Yeah,

sd	but I'm not sure if if it's if you get caught or if you turn yourself in.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, when you're a private company, the rules don't always apply.

qy	do you think it limits,	no	Well, it's hard for me to evaluate it because everybody I work around is in an office environment

b	Uh huh.	sv	so you know, I guess it works, much well, shoot, like any lottery,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	So, I'd rather have that than, you know, say well, this week the A s and B s are going to be in

sv	You could time it just right.	aa	Yeah,

sv	That'd be just as dangerous.	aa	Yeah.

aa	That's true.	sd	You know, I've gone out and had a beer at lunch time, but not to excess in any case .

qrr	or is it?	no	I don't remember, to tell you the truth.

b	Oh.	sv	Well, you know, you can take some of that testing a little bit too far.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it was, it was an unannounced sweep of,

sd	We don't have any grandchildren yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the other is, twenty one.	b	Uh huh .

sd	So they're, They're, they're getting there.	^2	Well, they're going to be getting there.

sd	You know, there's no no, no prospects right away for anything to happen.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I have three granddaughters right now.

b	Oh.	sd	one's in Iowa.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, she's a teacher

b	okay.	sd	and they let her bring her little daughter in for free.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but she just works part time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Then I have another daughter in, Bountiful, Utah

b	Yeah.	sd	And, the baby just screams.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well even if she knows that they're fixing to get ready to go over there.

sv	It's hard.	sd	and then I have a seven month old granddaughter

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	They live with us

b	Yeah.	sd	She said it's so awful.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I'm sure there must be some good ones around here somewhere.

b	Huh.	sv	But it's really, really very difficult

qw	What did you do when your kids were growing up?	sd	the see first ten or twelve years, I stayed home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, then after that I went to work.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And, a couple of times I just, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, first of all, her children were sick all the time.

b	yeah.	sd	same thing that her kids had,

b^m	Right.	sd	And so, we didn't take her over there until like about eleven o'clock.

b	yeah.	sd	And then what happened is, you know, they gave her a call because they knew that she was my baby sitter.

b	Right.	sd	I was so furious.

bf	You can come and go.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Well, does the company you work for test for drugs?	na	Actually, they just recently started a policy of testing drugs, which was kind of interesting,

sd	our policies and procedures manual, the furthest it goes about drugs is in kind of the miscellaneous section, or it's reasons for immediate dismissal,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, I work for an environmental management firm	b	Okay.

sd	but I don't operate any machinery.	b	Yeah.

sd	Now, people for our company that do operate machinery like drill rigs and things like that are under a medical monitoring program,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's just something that turns up in the other parameters that they test for.	b	Yeah.

qw	What is the nature of your company's business?	^h	Well, it's actually,

bh	really?	sd	Other than that they don't have random testing or anything like that,

sd	but, you know, they don't think twice about serving beer by the keg. You know,	b	Yeah .

sv	in your case, I don't think that you should necessarily be subjected to drug testing.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think that's an interesting policy your company has about testing immediately after an on the job accident.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I had an experience when I was interviewing for a job where I had to, do a drug test

b	Right.	sv	and the, the procedure is utterly humiliating.

sd	and she's real interested in geriatrics.	ba	Well, that sounds good.

sv	and, you wouldn't know anything about a Texas governor .	sd	I've heard the name

sd	And, my sister's real interested in that and getting into to that side of nursing.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	you know, they don't always have their full wits about them.

b	Uh huh.	sv	They're not completely up on what should be going on or what's not going on.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	And it can be pretty sad.

b	Oh.	sd	And, you know, it's the type of thing that she was living down in Florida.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the other part of her family was up in, New York state.

b	Right.	sd	And, you know, it was very difficult for either them or my grandfather to take care of her since she you know, could not do very much for herself after the stroke.

b^r	Right.	sv	And, you know, the nursing home was the, you know, best facility to put her in. You know, besides moving her up which is not a practical solution since both my parents work

b	Uh huh.	sv	and both my, aunts and uncle work. Which means it's, you know, very difficult for some ,

b	Right.	sv	you essentially need to have someone taking care of the person full time.

b^r	Right.	sv	And, you know, there's also a lot of medical problems that can't always be completely handled in the home. Which makes it, you know,

b^r	Right.	sv	it's a necessary evil I think.

sv	And some of the really nice ones that really take care of their people are so expensive. Because cause they can afford to hire the people that are really going to care for the older.	b	Yeah.

sd	It was in a very small town nursing home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They didn't care about what went on.	b	Yeah.

sd	They would let a patient get a lot of bed sores.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then, the nurses and doctors really didn't put forth any loving care for them.	sv	Either that or they're just so understaffed that they can't afford to put in the, care that they need. Cause it's, you know,

b^r	Right.	sd	an elderly person can, you know,

sv	And nurses get so worn down.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And they feel they feel pretty helpless.	sv	And it, very, very hard for them to accept that.

qy	Is it, like a retirement center?	no	More of a retirement home.

bk	Uh huh.	sd	And they provide one meal a day.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, the rest of the housekeeping and other meals a day are up to him.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	But they do have, you know, group activities going on.

qw	How's he handling that?	sd	he'd much rather be living alone in his apartment down in Florida.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, to move into that facility we moved him from Florida up to Maryland

qy	There wasn't anything like that, that you could do in Florida?	na	Well there was stuff like that in Florida

qw	What kind of crime do you think, is the most prevalent in our society?	sv	Oh, boy, probably, robberies, people stealing from each other.

qy^d	Such as New York City ?	qy^h	Is that what happens up there a lot?

sd	I mean it is a crime,	aa	well, yeah,

aa	Well, that's true.	sd	I break that law every day .

sd	But I, I was staying in the realm of felonies versus misdemeanors and, drug use,	b	Uh huh.

qy	have you been the subject of such a crime, such as stealing, or anything?	sd	Well, I've been caught with marijuana before,

sv	I mean you know, those aren't,	aa	No,

sv	in some ways, it's almost worse than murder.	b	Yeah,

sv	you know, I mean, it is a rather final solution, though .	aa	Yeah,

qw	what do you think is an appropriate, punishment for you know, things such as rape or, murder or something like that.	sv	Well for a lot of the kind of premeditated murders, I think the death penalty is,

aa	I agree with that.	sv	they have that down here in Florida still.

sv	I think Virginia does, too, up here.	qy	do they?

sv	I think the appeal process takes too long.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I, I think it from conviction to execution should take no longer than a year.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Then, you know, there's been guys in jail for six years

sv	you go out of your way to try real hard to make it perfect.	b	Right.

sv	I think that murder itself would decrease significantly if there was a credible punishment, for murderers.	b	yeah,

^2	And society probably, too.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, just general society to,	aa	Yeah,

sv	and it decreases the prison population. which is significant	b	Yeah,

b	I mean, Yeah.	sd	And they're kind of like crimes of passion and stuff like that.

sv	generally the crimes of passion and things like that, are not premeditated.	b	Right.

sv	but usually they aren't.	b	Yeah.

sv	They're spur of the moment	aa	That's right.

sv	and, the premeditated murders, the ones where the person plots and plans, when you catch those individuals, I think that you how do I want to, you end up with a s , you end up with someone who's more dangerous to society because they actually could harbor these thoughts for a long time.	b	Yeah.

sv	they would have no problems doing it again.	aa	That's right,

sv	And I think locking them up for, you know, fifty years doesn't do any good because as a taxpayer, I'm going to pay, you know, one and a,	aa	No,

sd	I'm a senior in, college now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I can't really talk too much about the problems with, public education in detail because the school system I went to was, really superb even though it was a public school system.	bh	Really?

^g	okay.	na^r	Okay .

qy^d	a, it's a more or less a suburban school system?	ny	Yeah.

sv	You know, I think that, I mean I know that in my town, you know, most of the parents, they're valued education.	qw	What d ,

sv	And, you know, and so the students were, you know, to some extent, motivated to learn.	aa	Yeah,

sv	, but, I think, I mean even more than that, even, I mean if you drop out in high school you should still be able to read , you know? Which , I mean it sounds like,	b	Uh huh.

sv	now I think maybe it's started changing in the past few years because, they have these, sort of , tory tests you have to take before you get a diploma.	b	Right.

sd	I, I mean I just can't even picture how that could happen. You know, except maybe to someone whose, you know, really badly learning, disabled or something.	b	Yeah.

sd	But these people obviously weren't.	sd	That's hard for me to say since I didn't, I didn't really grow,

b	Yeah.	sv	So I guess I can't really I can't say what it would be like to, grow up in a really oppressed region .

b^r	Yeah.	sv	You know, I guess the whole environment and attitude towards school and learning is different for the people.

sv	I mean, I think you know, people just,	sv	So, I guess the thing to do is to try to get some kind of motivation to learn

sv	I think it'd be interesting you know, to spend a couple of days just looking around an inner city school. you know, sort of maybe from elementary through, high school. You know, just sort of to get a feel for what it's like.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I haven't done that .	b	No,

sv	And I think it's a good thing.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	If you compare like the people that could have sent their kids to private schools and you know, the people that, did send their kids to private schools.

b	Yes.	sv	I think they compare you know, fairly well.

sv	I mean, I honestly don't really think I could have, you know, done much better than I did in the school system I was in. I mean .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, that makes a big difference

sd	Then in high school it changed into four levels of instruction in the major subjects. which,	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	we don't have the, national public radio in my area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the F M signal doesn't reach this far.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	It gives you a whole different perspective on the news, when you hear it from, say, a European point of view, or from the country of origin.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	I'm not too satisfied with our local newspaper which is why I rely on shortwave and then the cable, cable, C N N.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	or it's not happening in your backyard	b	Uh huh.

sv	they almost take all emotions out of it when they report it	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	they seem to give more of just the facts than opinions.	qy	Do you think, then, that, the American media is presenting an opinion along with their facts?

sv	but a lot of times the person doesn't have the experience to do the interpreting.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's nice to hear someone's interpretation of it	b	Uh huh.

sd	And a lot of time I don't hear exactly what they write into it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So overall, I think I would rather hear just straight reporting.	sv	One of the things that I found interesting last year during the Gulf conflict was a sentiment against, Peter Arnett, who had stayed in Iraq and was presenting, some of the things that were available.

qy	So. Have you heard about Saturns?	^h	I've heard some about Saturns.

sd	Saturns, you can't go to a dealer unless you go to a Saturn dealer. this offshoot of G M .	b	Yeah.

sv	And, supposedly, they've got great customer satisfaction from what things I've heard.	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	Well, like what?	^h	Well, let's see.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I found that while you can find some cars that are comfortable to ride in, finding a car anymore that's fairly easy for me to work on, it's not very,

sd	and I, and I do most of the work on that myself.	ba	Ooh.

sv	You can't do anything.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'd have to almost go take a class or something like that.	sd	Well I've got an eighty three Saab.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I find that for you know, everyday things. It's really very easy to work on

b	Uh huh.	sd	With a three fifty in it.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, I really liked working on it. cause it was pretty easy too.

b	Yeah .	sv	And that's, that's probably one thing I'd look at.

sd	Actually, one of the cars we'd most like to get would be the new ninety one Ford Taurus cause they're actually one of the cheaper cars that have dual side air bags.	b	Huh.

b	Yeah .	sd	I've driven some, Tauruses over the last couple of years when I've been on business trips. as rental cars.

b	Uh huh .	sd	And I've always been very impressed with the Taurus.

b	Yeah.	sd	I've been real impressed with that.

sd^r	The ninety twos had dual air bags.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You could get them with duals .	sv	I think that, That's excellent.

sd	So we're actually been looking around and thinking about things.	b	Oh.

sd	A dealer return type thing on a ninety two and ninety three or something like that you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Year old ninety two or something like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And the other thing we're looking at is the Saturns too.	b	Okay.

sv	Because they looked really nice.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't think you can get dual side air bags.	b	Uh huh.

sv	the I'd say the most important thing is a car that's not going to fall apart. That doesn't have problems.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you just get so depressed for the U S auto makers when you do that.	b	Yeah.

sd	and the two cars that apparently are close to that. That actually have high reliability, the Taurus is one of the highest U S cars.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And the other one are the Saturns.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then, you know, we kind of want a four door.	b	Okay .

sv^t	so I guess the recording has started now.	b	Yeah.

qy	Have you ever served on one?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I finally was.

qr	Was it civil or criminal?	sd	it was, it was, well, let's see, it was municipal court

b	Uh huh.	sd	so it was a combination of,

b	I see.	sd	so it was a combination of criminal and civil,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and then, it was always exciting when we got called to, to go, because then we thought we might be able to do something else besides, just sit in the jury room.

qrr	or did you folks do that?	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Course they don't have to give a reason,

aa	No.	sv	they want to get the best, mix for their case,

sv	That that's a science in itself.	b	Yeah,

bf	Because you'd probably be, too puritanical	aa	Yeah,

qy	if you were deciding, do you think that they would have been different.	^h	Well, I was never there for any sentencing.

sv	I bet that made him happy.	aa	Yeah.

b	Right.	sd	I, I wanted to vote guilty for the guy,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, the guy had to go through the whole thing all over again.

qr	Was it a six or twelve member jury?	sd	it must have been six.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's a simple majority, you know, rules.	b	Yeah.

sd	the two that I were on had to do with drugs	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we had to acquit him in both cases.	qy^d	it was too circumstantial?

sd	I'd like to have a short work week you know,	b	okay.

sv	and we need, you know, better health insurance and you know, cau ,	b	Okay,

aa	Okay.	sd	If you don't want to, you know, talk about it now and then be bored when we get to it .

^g	right?	na^m	Right.

qy	ready?	ny	Yep.

bk	Okay .	sv	So, so I think that a short work week is real nice.

sd	but I've work in the job force before	b	Uh huh.

sd	And have a if we could have a thirty two hour work week, with that happen is that, for every four people we could give another job.	b	Uh huh.

sv	we'd have to build less prisons, you know, less police force.	b	Yeah,

sv	it, that's, that's a possibility.	b	Yeah.

sv	one of the problems they're facing now, a lot of people now, is that the small business can't offer health insurance	b	Uh huh.

sd	what happened and where they really have to spend out a lot of money for one particular,	b	Right.

sd	They have to cancel everything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then all the people don't have any insurance coverage.	b	Right.

sd	I'm an engineering student.	b	Right.

sd	I'm in my thirties, okay.	b	Yeah.

sd	and he can give me access and tell me what to do and just turn me loose	b	Yeah.

sd	and and one of the things that I really hate about jobs. I don't like bosses that you know want to yell at you and you know are down on your back and all this and that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just really can't deal with that	b	Yeah .

qw	what kind of jobs have you done?	sd	Well, well, I do research in computer science

b	Uh huh.	sd	what I really like is, I like being,

sd	You have what you might call knowledge power	b	Right.

sv	But if you're a person that's doing computer type things and you have the knowledge, you know what the system you've revised and revamped the system, well then you're vital to the company	b	Uh huh.

sv	be one of the last ones to let go anyway.	b	Right.

qw	Where do you get most of your news?	sd	I watch the MACNEIL LEHRER news hour,

qw	where are you?	sd	I'm in Dallas.

bk	yeah.	qy	Are you in Dallas also?

sd^e	I'm in San Antonio.	b	really,

sd	I take the paper every day	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I read it on the way in to work in a carpool.	bh	really.

sd	And then, you know, usually over lunch, there'll be a big topic of conversation on something from the news.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I would always end up arriving at work late, because I would always end up skimming the headlines, spending too much time, reading it in the morning.

b	Yeah.	sd	So I have to cut myself down to the weekend, plus after work.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I enjoy that quite a bit.

sd	one of the women that I work with, her husband is Iranian.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So here lately with all the Middle Eastern news we've had some very interesting conversations over lunch.	sd	I will admit I work with, someone who's Iranian,

b	Uh huh.	sd	He's very, very skeptical of the news media,

sd	Well I, I like the print news much better than the television news because television news tends to sensationalize.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I understand that the MacNeil Lehrer probably doesn't.	sd	They, tend to spend quite a bit of time on one story.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They will have maybe two or three main stories and just spend a very large amount of time.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	Well, I guess they only normally stick with just the one, story.

bf	They don't report on every murder and shooting that happened in every little town.	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	A lot of times they end up, with these panels of experts

sd	I've been getting a kick out of those lately.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I've never actually been through a period of war	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	Now when they started to speculate, I saw that for what is was, and thought all of these guys don't know what's going on.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and they shed some light on what was going on for me.	aa	I will admit it's interesting.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And they seemed to mold the events to their view of the world, which I suppose just about everyone does,

sd	and it was for children	b	Uh huh.

sd	They had them all on hold	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and, I was real impressed at how A B C handled, translating, the war for children.	b^r	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I thought that was a really unusual thing.

sd	but they were free rental, videos, that had something to do with the war.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was something for children, that they had several advertisements on television pushing parents going and, getting the video and watching it with their children and discussing it and that kind of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well back during the Viet Nam conflict that no one will have the guts enough to call a real war	b	Uh huh.

sd	that type of technology just wasn't at people's disposal.	aa	That's true.

sv	So I don't think there's ever been a war that's been so thoroughly covered by the news.	sv	And probably more importantly, one that lasted short enough that people's interest didn't flag too badly.

sd	the first three days, I was glued to the television.	sd	I will admit the same thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	and I was just, I was horrified and fascinated by what I was seeing.

sd	and Friday night I stayed up until two o'clock in the morning, sitting, right dead center in front of my television just watching practically with my mouth hanging open.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I was amazed.	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh.	sv	so I'm pretty much limited to P B S, which I thought they did a very good job.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've got one question for you.

ny	Uh huh.	sv	I found the newspaper situation in Dallas very interesting.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Does San Antonio ha ,

ny^r	Uh huh.	qy	Do you have just one paper,

sd	I grew up near Houston	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the one I picked here had the same format as the one that my parents took as I was growing up. I mean, the same type of typeface on the headline and that kind of stuff.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and the other one has some weird ones that I've never heard of.	sd	I actually take both newspapers on the weekends.

bh	Do you?	sd	I figure I'm only taking on the weekend,

b	Yeah.	sd	I find the news reporting in the MORNING NEWS to be better,

sd	And my, My fiancee takes probably six Sunday papers.	sd	I get the TIMES HERALD just to balance that out a little bit.

sd	so he's getting all the sports sections.	b	Uh huh.

qo	What do you think about the benefits in jobs?	sd	I'm relatively satisfied with the benefits I have.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'd rather that we got a bit more coverage for a lot less money.

sd	so that leaves you paying for all of it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the health insurance I have is Met Life,	b	Yeah,

sd	Or if you go outside you get, seventy thirty.	sd	I have just the regular insurance so that any doctor is covered

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so recently, when we had a claim, they didn't pay the eighty five percent they paid much lower

sv	and they're probably doing it to their benefit, anyway.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But it's difficult.

sd	and, that's about the only real benefit you have, is health insurance.	qy^d	Well, you have vacation, I mea ,

sv	and, you know, I think they even have a swimming pool	b	Huh.

sd	and I don't know if they have any tennis courts or anything like that.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	And, you know, the leniency with which they let you take leave without pay, perhaps or, um, I don't know, I suppose, sick days.

b	Uh huh.	sd	ours is based on number of days,

b	Right.	b	Right.

sv	Some places aren't very safe to work.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and some places don't compensate you for the hazards that you have to work under.	b	Uh huh.

b	uh huh.	sv	but, you know I suppose some places are more stringent about that than others.

sv	I think so.	sv	and, maybe arriving late or something like that, you know,

b	Uh huh	sd	But other than that I don't have much feeling for the benefits,

sd	workmen's comp is a big thing now in Texas because, how much it costs the employers	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I noticed right off that was a year less than what the state was allowing.	sd;qy^d	I didn't know that somebody could avoid workmen's compensation.

sd	but they buy their own instead of going through the state.	bk	I see.

sd	So apparently it costs less that way.	b	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and at least, you know, financially in the short run,

sv	and then have everybody be unhappy and have a constant turnover of people.	sv	I mean, sure, the payroll is lower that way,

sv	if they have to train a new employee every six months, then I don't see how they can save money.	b	Uh huh,

sv	You know, and once they once they get somebody good, they ought to hang onto them.	aa	That's right.

fc	it was nice talking to you.	fc	Well thank you for calling.

fc	Bye bye	fc	Bye bye.

qy	are there many lakes up there?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Plus, we're in what's called the Finger Lake Region of New York

qy^d	They have mostly small mouth in them	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, all sorts of fun stuff like that.

b	uh huh.	sd	So it's, that's, a lot of fun.

b	Uh huh.	qo	How about you?

sd	but, they have a tail race over in Lake Lavon	b	Yeah.

sd	Every once in a while there'll be striped bass.	sd	We have, some friends who live on the lake

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, the lake it just seems, is completely filled with bass to the point where, you know, normally you y , y , go fishing for bass, you get a lot of sunfish, or cat or whatever, and some other strange stuff. / * listen

ba	Wow.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	probably during perch season the perch will run in very large schools,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and when they do, you can just drop the lines in and just pull them in one at,

qw	what do you catch perch on?	sd	according to them, when the perch are running, you can catch them on just about anything.

b	Huh.	sd	They tend to use, I guess worms or some kind of lures sometimes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	corn or salami or bread or anything,

sd	but, some fish steal it off the hook sometimes.	aa	Yeah,

sd	there's a college across the street	b	Yeah.

sd	its mouth was full of hooks.	ba	Wow.

sd	he was fast.	qy	A big one?

sd	Well, it's, it was sixteen inches long.	ba	that's, that's a nice size carp.

sd	how your line goes, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, you know, I got it that far,	bf	that, that counts.

sd(^q)	and I said, that's a quick release, right there.	qy	do you, do you actually like the taste of f ,

ny	yeah.	b	Right,

sv	when you have to look in their eyes and, you know, hit them in the head or whatever, that's what you do with a catfish you know, because you have to sever their spinal cord.	aa	Right.

b^r	yeah.	aa	Yeah,

h	I don't know,	b	Yeah.

sd	sometimes they've had you know, one on every hook.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so he'd maneuver us into a school of fish

b	Yeah.	sd	it was a, like twenty dollars for six hours of fishing on some big charter boat.

ba	Wow.	sd	You know, and, and they'll clean your fish on a tip basis for you if you want.

sd	down here it's like two hundred dollars a day.	sd	this, this was for a, you know, large,

bf	A group party.	sd	we weren't all related, just, you know, thirty people off the shop in the boat there.

b	Yeah.	sd	If you want to go on a boat alone, it's like two hundred dollars a day.

b	Yeah.	sd	But this is great, because I think it was nineteen dollars for five hours and twenty dollars for six hours or something.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so you'd get to go out there for, for six hours and get a nice suntan and bring along some lunch and fish all day.

sd^t	Well, I don't know if it's been five minutes yet or not.	sv	I think we're probably close, though.

fc	It's nice talking to you.	fc	Nice talking to you, too.

fc	Good luck.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	but, that's basically what I do.	sv	Well, I think our tastes are fairly similar,

b	Oh.	sd	I suppose, I could get away with extremely casual clothes,

b	Right.	sd	and, I guess dress it up with a, a very nice black jacket when I have visitors or have to give talks.

ba	Well, that sounds nice.	b	Right.

qr	or,	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	nn	But, no,

am	Maybe.	sd	But but, you know, you wear a heavy sweater in your office, all summer.

b	No.	sd	I don't, I, you know, I'm not a clothes horse in the sense that some of my friends.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I guess although in, as I recall the stereotype of secretaries was, you know, overdress, over kill, sort of

b	Yeah.	sd	and in a sense, the people I know who spend the most on clothes are secretaries.

b	Yeah.	sv	Although the fact that most of the ones I know are in the government and they're not meeting the public I find it a little bit strange that their priorities would be to spend this money here .

b	Right.	o	You know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, I suppose if you were a, more a receptionist and meeting the public and it was the image of your company at stake perhaps you would have to dress up.

sd	and in the wintertime I change to the sweaters.	b	Uh huh,

sd	but it just wouldn't be, smart for me to do that in my home with my children.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it doesn't really change my clothing style.	aa	Exactly.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm really glad about that pant suits are popular because I'm allergic to many of the synthetics.

b	Oh.	sd	And so I used to have a problem when I was working in a restaurant while I was in college and had to dress up, and nylons and things like that would just give me a terrible rash.

ba	dear.	o@	So, Right,

ba	That's not helpful.	aa^r	right.

fc	Well, it's been great talking to you.	fc	Okay.

fc	Have a great day.	fc	Well, have a good day.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qy	Nancy, do you have any children?	ny	Yes,

b	Oh.	sd	I'm a nurse,

ba	Well, that's nice.	sd	drives her to school,

qw^d	Well, how old, does a child have to be before you get to stop making arrangements for him, I wonder.	sd	Well, I could do it now.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But she gets lonely in the morning,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I feel better.

sv	Well, and, it's nice for them not to be alone.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but we just feel better doing it this way.

ba	Not after wor ,	sd	we were about to stop one day this year,

ba	no.	sv	so, you know, you realize that it only takes one second for something to happen.

b	Yeah.	sv	so you got to be careful .

ba	Well, I'm glad you have that, opportunity to have your mom.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Well, I have two kids five and six, a girl and a boy,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, so far I haven't had to make a lot of child care arrangements for them because, I'm at home now full time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, when I was going to school, I would go to school a time that my husband you know, when he was at home	b	Yeah.

sd	and I would really hate to be in a position to have to find child care .	sd	Well, I would, too, because even though a place can look pretty good on the outside, we're finding out now that it's not always on the inside

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I just don't know what I would do if I had to do that.

aa	No.	sd	I know the hospital that I work in is a big hospital

b	Uh huh.	sd	but at least all the nurses can leave their children,

ba	Well, that's nice.	sd@	it is nice. * slash error Right, right . * aa; slash error Well that's right. / * aa

sv	and it made me realize that, no one will love your child as much as you and your mother, and, the family	aa	Yeah,

sd	what is that like, Kinder Care and things like that,	b	Right.

sd	I would prefer to have in home care, either my own home or a neighbor or something.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They were the same age,

aa	Right.	sd	and so it got hard,

bf	It is hard.	sd	my daughter got jealous

b	No.	sd	So I stopped that after a year, because it was difficult to balance it,

sd	And I and I would hate for them to have, be picked up by a day care and be taken to another large group situation.	ba	They do.

sd	So I think, my preference small, if I had to find day care would be a small, someone that I knew .	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but a lot of people where I live are working just because they want bigger and better,

aa	No.	sd	I never have done it,

sv@	Well, that's true, because even now, when they're gone to school, it seems like there's just not enough time left over * two utts in the day.	aa	No there isn't,

qw	What part of the country are you in?	sd	Pennsylvania.

qr^d*	East or west, I'm from Pittsburgh. / * listen	qy	are you really?

ny	Yeah.	qw	What part of Pittsburgh?

sd	the South Hills area, Beaver County, well originally Beaver County .	b	Uh huh.

qw	And, where are you from?	sd	Clarion County.

sd	I know where that is.	sd	we live out in the country.

ba	that's pretty out there.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I'm talking to you from Dallas right now.	qy	you are?

ny	Uh huh	qy	do you work for Texas Instruments then?

sd^e	my husband does.	b	uh huh.

qy	And how about you?	nn	No,

qr	do you have a rural house or what do you have?	sd	we have a big old farmhouse that we've you know, remodeled.

ba	Those are beautiful.	sd	It had been, you know, of course, a farm.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's a farm community,

qrr	or is it?	sd	Ours is not a working farm .

sd	that's probably what I would,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah	sd	But we don't farm.

sd	I hear the , I hear the Western Pennsylvania,	b	Uh huh.

sd	we lived in Minneapolis for about five years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we met and got married	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	and that's not what they want to hear on this call,	b	Uh huh.

sd	my husband was transferred around, up to Minnesota and now back to Texas with T I	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we're leasing a, two story town home in a section of Dallas they call North Dallas.	b	uh huh.

sv	well, it's not little any more.	sd	Grapevine,

sd	That's about forty five miles from us.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Minneapolis Saint Paul is very clean	b	Uh huh,

sv	but it's just everything's overpriced for the economy.	ba	it's terrible.

sd	and you're probably, your teeth will probably fall out figuratively speaking, it's nine hundred a month.	ba	I'm not surprised.

sd	if you get anything under five hundred you get into what they call high density living you know, the big apartment complexes	b	right,

sd	and I just have no tolerance for that.	b	Yeah,

o@	I pre , * slash error That's right. / * slash error	sv	And the people think the income is really great in some of those areas

sd	like a two by two they call it like in Pittsburgh.	b	Right,

sd	and now she can't sell it.	sv	Well, prices have come down on the homes, the duplexes.

sd	I mean, our neighbors, the attached on the other side, they're very nice, thank God,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they paid fifty eight for it.	ba	my heaven.

sd	I know.	sd	Well, I know up in Connecticut the same thing happened,

sd	and it's really, really bad.	sd	But we like our area.

sd	because we're considering moving to Pennsylvania .	sd	Well, we're about a hundred miles from Pittsburgh north.

br^m	That's north.	ny	And yeah,

h	Bradford, no that's too far north.	sd	Bradford's north of us.

bk	okay.	nn	No,

sv	Well, you're really not too bad.	b	Uh huh.

qr	or that you've,	sd	Well, we've been here since sixty six.

qr	or,	sd	we have fifty acres.

ba	well, then.	fa	pardon me,

qy	do you feel like you live in an isolated area	nn	No,

sd	but I can remember when Upper Saint Clair was out in the, you know, the rural end of Washington,	b	Uh huh,

sd^c	and now it's a terrible connection.	aa	Yeah,

bd	well that's okay,	sd	but we live about ten miles from probably three or four, not large towns but, you know, reasonable.

qy	do you like living in an older home and restoring it like that?	ny	yeah,

qw	How many square feet do you have?	fe	golly,

qw	Well how many rooms do you think,	sd	We have, four rooms downstairs, and a pantry

b	Uh huh.	sd	and upstairs we have a bath,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We have a bath upstairs, and one, two, three, four bedrooms and a sewing room and a junk room .

bf	that's large if your children aren't at home any more.	br	Pardon?

bf^r	That's large if your kids aren't at home any more.	nd	Well, it really isn't too big yet.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we just like it real well

bf	It's enough space for two people .	sd	we had five children,

bk	okay.	sd	They're all out on their own now.

sd	It's got three bedrooms, two and a half baths	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's really nice.	ba	Well, it sounds like a good buy.

sd	but leasing it is fine.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and my husband was raised, on a working farm near Dayt ,	ba	that makes a big difference.

sd	he's slowly getting me to, not feel isolated if we move to where there's more land.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Right.	bf	but yet you can have your friends,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You have more of a choice,

sd	his parents have, land that they retired to, about a hundred miles out of Atlanta in Georgia,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it is too far south for me,	b	uh huh.

sd	I mean, it's just beautiful.	b@	* slash error Uh huh.

sd	You know, I mean, it's modern	^2	More luxury.

sd	it's country	b	Right,

sv	Pittsburgh's housing economy, i , I think it's holding it's own.	aa	yeah,

ba	that's nice.	sd	And, the one boy, the house they bought is completely livable.

ba	Great.	sd	The other one has, you know, needs more work done.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they have two children, too,

sd	and they've been in their house, probably about twelve years now	b	Uh huh.

sd	they're going to start to see their return on their investment very soon.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I mean, my brother lives,	ba	They are beautiful homes.

qr	is it called Baldwin or Bebble?	b	Uh huh,

sv	it's real pretty up there.	aa	It is,

sv	And the neighborhoods are stable you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	when you come to this part of the country, we've been away from Dallas long enough that you see the difference in housing.	ba	my

ba	my goodness.	sd	And then after they had to start paying to move us, that suddenly wasn't necessary any more .

sv	and what happens is, you just realize that once you get to a certain age the next house that you get we'll be staying in .	aa	Right, yeah,

sd	that's kind of like where we're,	b	Yeah.

sd	and we're just kind of, you know, toying with what exactly, where we want to be, you know.	b	Uh huh.

ar	and, but I disagree with that,	sd(^q)	I've heard too many people say, I hate it here.

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, they buy a place

sv	but it's still not going up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I just refuse to buy it, if I know I'm not going to be there for at least five years, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and here, he told you this, every other house, you know, if it's been foreclosed on or, you know, even big executives	ba	Right,

sd	People from J C Penney's from New York, came here about a couple of years ago.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And they thought they were getting a great deal, because they could get a five hundred thousand dollar home with, they call it, zero lot lines, no property,	b	uh huh.

sv	I mean it would probably be like your house on, you know, a half a city block in Pittsburgh or something.	sd	I couldn't handle that .

sd	I can look outside right now and look into the next unit.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's landscaped and all that with azaleas,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's still not that private.	sd	I get tired, sometimes, mowing, because we mow, you know, a good bit of ground around the house area.

arp	but you have a rider.	sd	And I do get tired of that

o	All right.	sd	Well, she lives in Utah,

sd	We always lived away from our family and relatives while the kids were growing up.	b	Yeah.

ad^t	So, well, I guess we're going to talk about children today.	aa	Okay,

sd	My children are all gone already.	b	Uh huh.

qy	yo , do you work?	aa	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I stay home most of the time

b	Right.	sd	my neighbor she tends children though

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, you know, there's pros and cons on both side of that

b	Right.	sd	because if they were, then you kind of know that they had to go through some kind of testing, or some kind of something to , get an okay seal.

sv	of course, maybe that's what we hear about is from organized and approved day care centers.	aa	That's right.

sv	But maybe we don't hear about the other ones though that could be.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, the individual incidence or something.	b	Uh huh.

qw	how old, is your oldest?	sd	He's almost a teenager .

sv	well, he's plenty big enough then .	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they did a good job, for me.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	but I've never had to leave them like in a day care center, or anything,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I've been very lucky just be able to stay home.

sd	but my last two children were, both entering high school age.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I stayed home the rest of the time.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they've been in day care,	b	Uh huh.

sd	she works full time.	b	Yeah,

sd	but yet she's the type of person that, I don't know, if she'd be happy staying at home.	ba	Well, some people aren't.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	She's done a lot of things that I never thought she would do, you know, with the family because she was the one that said she was never getting married and never going to have any children.	bh	is that right? .

sd	So, she spends a lot of quality time I think when she is with the children.	ba	I think that's really important.

sd	They had a lady come in.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it did not work out. at all .	b	Uh huh.

sd	She was real excited because it was so much easier than taking the children out, in the morning,	aa	Yeah,

sd	and so she called and said things were okay, settled down and was all right.	b	Yeah,

sd	and things weren't okay .	ba	Oh.

sd	which she doesn't allow them to watch the soapies.	b	uh huh.

sd	And the baby was in his crib with the door shut just screaming his heart out,	ba	dear.

sd	and the baby sitter was in the kitchen with her baby.	ba	Oh.

sd	And so that ended that, episode,	ba	Yeah.

sd	and she was most upset, over finding this.	b	Yeah,

sd	There's, more people involved,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the age groups are separated .	sd	Well, nannies have been an option,

^2	story time,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it kept track of what they did,	b	Uh huh.

sd	So it kind of i , kept them,	bf	Gave you an idea of what your child, was progressing in or doing.

sv	I always thought that if you were checking into a day care, that you would be good to get references, on people that had been in that day care but was no longer there.	aa	Yeah.

sv	if there was a problem they would I think be more ready to tell you what it was.	sv	I think so, because if they were still there, you know they might not,

sv	They may not say anything.	aa	Right,

sv	And, how do you judge other than from what others have, what you see, the cleanliness and that type of thing.	aa	You can't really.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and usually they aren't at that age.

sv	But it would be real difficult you, you know, to find one and decide.	sd	Well, I know about three years ago I, I tended some children. And, you know, I wondered if I would have to be certified

b	Uh huh.	sd	or whether they'd just bring them

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so, they said, no, don't do that, we'll just bring them.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And then if there was a problem

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it never happened, to be a problem,

b	Yeah.	sd	and so things worked out okay,

sd	I've decided I'm going to baby sit my two granddaughters.	b	Oh.

sd	And so, I'm going to give it a try.	ba	That's great.

sd	I, I sell Avon and Stanley products,	b	uh huh.

sd	so I'll do my orders and that by phone.	ba	Well, that will be great.

sd	So, I'll be able to keep that up a little bit.	b	Yeah.

sv	But I th , I think I'll enjoy doing ,	b	Yeah.

sv	I think I'll enjoy.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I guess I kind of miss having a baby around . A kid around or something .	ba	Sure,

aa	Yeah.	sv@	and you know, the grandparents, I always hear it's always fun when you can send them home at the end of the day instead of having to, * slash error So, * slash error That's right.

sd	somebody said if they knew grandchildren where so much fun, they would have had them first .	sd	Well, my husband's mother lives right over here,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and just is a lovely lady,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I've always appreciated when she's sat with them.

sd	My daughter, always said she would not let me baby sit because you do hear grandparents complaining you know because they're stuck with their grandchildren so much.	b	Oh .

ad	Doug, you want to start? .	aa	Sure.

qy^d	You don't use any credit cards, I don't imagine.	nn	No.

qy	do you use them a lot?	ng	we try not to.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We're on a pretty strict and tight budget.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We use the credit cards, however, when we're at a situation where we don't have either the cash or the checkbook handy.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Or we use credit cards also, if we want to get an extended warranty on an item that we're purchasing.

b	uh huh.	sd	and basically we use it mainly when we're traveling or out of state or or somewhere where, you know, they don't take out of state checks

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so when we're traveling some.

sd	and he uses them quite a bit.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He likes using them and then just pay at the end of the month .	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they just pay the minimum required balance.

sv	And that's when you get into expenses.	aa	Yes,

aa	Right.	sd	some people I know also try to use it as float where they buy something now

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and say, well, I'm going to buy this when it's good and on sale

b	Uh huh.	^q	when I'm being paid.

sv	and it's really useful.	aa	That's true.

sd	And some places won't take, you know, like personal checks or cash, even	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they would take a credit card.	aa	Right.

b	Right.	qy	Are they the same there?

sd	like the gas stations more,	ba	That's pretty steep.

sd	we just don't, go there because there's enough other ones around that don't charge you anything	b	Yes.

sd	extra because actually, to me, credit cards are the same as cash,	b	Uh huh,

sd	to me they are, anyway,	aa	Yes,

na	right.	ba	Very good.

sd	Now we have, you know, at times, made payments on our things,	b	Uh huh.

sd	We try hard,	b	Well, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	that you can can find yourselves in those situations and use a credit card to to help yourself.

b	Right.	sv	So I think that there's a great advantage to a credit card in those situations.

sv	because sometimes, there's times when you maybe couldn't take advantage of something	b	Uh huh.

sv	but with a credit card you can.	b	Uh huh,

sd	but when you get down to the nitty gritty, there's probably three that we use most of the time.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We like to use three, basic credit cards.

b	Uh huh.	sd	That way we're not confused

b^r	uh huh.	qy	And, do you find that you get an awful lot of credit card applications through the mail?

ny	yes.	sd	Once a week,

sd	They make it very readily available.	b	Yeah.

sd	what they charge per year to use our money, you know	b	Right,

sd	so we try to look at that also.	b	Yes,

qo	What do you think?	qy^g^t	Well, this is about drug testing right?

na	Right.	sv	Well, I'm certainly under the influence of the idea that the government needs to have less control on what the citizens do,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think it should be more by the private institution.

sv	They should, have drug screening before they hire an employee	b	Uh huh.

sd	like if they're coming to late work all the time and, if they're, especially if they're on the line or any kind of sensitive job where, you know, if they made a mistake, it would cost a lot of money or or people's lives. * slash Then they need to be watched carefully / * slash	b	Uh huh.

o@	so, * slash Right. / * slash, should be aa	b	Uh huh.

sv	That's all there is to it.	aa	Definitely,

b	Uh huh.	sv	if it's a policeman and he's working with, the public and has a gun in his holster or even, you know, if it's a guy at McDonald's cooking a burger, I think, they're dangerous in either situation.

b	Uh huh.	qo	what do you think,

sv	It's probably like forty, fifty percent.	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because, all the jobs that I've applied for have, mentioned some type of drug screening.	b	Right.

o@	You know. * slash error I work at Sears.	qw	What kind of work are you in?

sd	And I just do warehouse work.	b	Uh huh,

o@	so, * slash error Yeah. / * slash error should be 'b'	b	Oh.

sd	But now they, they issued a statement about that, about three months ago.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Like they've been laying off a lot of people.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, they sent out the employee assistance cards for anyone that had any sort of drug problem or work related problem.	b	Sure.

sd	Family problems, you know. They kind of covered everything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I know they have a lot of drug problems	b	Yeah.

sd^e	I do.	aa	Yeah,

sd	they talk against drugs	b	Yeah.

sd	and then they get caught, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd*	In stings in Washington. / * one utt with a.61	b	Yeah.

sv	like the money laundering scams. All that was drug related.	b	yeah.

sv	and that cost us, the country, you know, billions of dollars.	aa	Sure,

sd	so I don't really have a lot of experience with air pollution.	b	Huh uh.

sd	But, I know when I lived down in Houston, on the outskirts of Houston, there were some towns like Pasadena that had oil refineries,	b	Huh uh.

sd	And, if you would drive by there, like on your way to the beach or something, there would just be dumping this huge amounts of smoke, into the air	b	Huh uh.

qo	What have you got up there?	sd	Well, I live out in the country,

b	Huh uh.	sv	so that part is good.

b	Huh uh.	sd	and right now in our area were fighting against a toxic waste incinerator. / * sp: we're

ba	no.	sd	And, it won't be too for from where we live. / * sp: far

ba	Sure.	sd	we would like the, industry to do more to take care of the waste products before they turn to incineration, because we feel that, the small percentage that they're going to be putting into the air is too much.

sv	and, and the little bit you say that there putting in here and there, and everywhere, it all adds up. / * there > they're	b	Huh uh.

sd	With all that smoke and,	sv	that has to be terrible over there.

qh	So it's just, why are we doing this to ourselves .	b	Huh uh.

sd	but, you know, what really amazes me about, like that Pasadena area and the oil refineries, is that there would be houses and people living just really close to it.	b	Huh uh.

sd	I mean, between the freeway and the oil refinery, you would see a neighborhood.	b	Huh uh.

sv	and what comes up, must come down .	b	Yeah.

sv	and here you are living ...	b	Huh uh .

sv	That just doesn't make too much sense.	aa	No.

b	Huh uh.	sd	they've reused some of it,

b	Huh uh.	sd	and that they've shown, that to begin with, apparently it does cost more,

b	Huh uh.	sd	but, once they get started, it saves them money in the end,

b	Huh uh.	sd	that's what we want done.

sv	Well, individual companies and things are so selfish,	b	Huh uh.

sv	they don't care about the environmental impact, that they make.	b	Huh uh.

aa	Yes.	sv	They're making fantastic amounts on these things

qy	Well, have you ever visited, like Los Angeles or any place it's kind of known, that it has, pollution in it's air?	ng	We've never been,

b	Huh uh.	sd	we should have gone the whole way over,

b	Huh uh.	sd	and she said how wonderful it was to be able to look into the sky and see some of the things that she saw.

b	Huh uh.	sd	She said they couldn't see those things out there, because of the smog and everything.

qy^d	I guess you've gone that way, maybe.	nn	No.

ba	Pretty funny.	qy	Have you been there?

sd	I have relatives that direction.	b	Oh.

qy	is it close to Phoenixville, Pennsylvania?	nn	no,

sd	Because I have family there	sd	We're near Pittsburgh, Clarion University.

ba	It's pretty neat.	sd	it's kind of northwest part of Pennsylvania.

sd	it's, very lush and pretty, back in the east.	o@	Huh uh. * slash error You sound very young. / * slash error should be sv

sd	It's really,	qy	Are you a young person?

no	Well, I'm thirty one.	b^m	Thirty one.

sv	Seems kind of old to me.	nn	No,

b	Huh uh.	sd	older people,

b	Huh uh.	sv	and they don't realize these things are going to affect everybody.

aa	Yes.	sv	Nieces, nephews, whatever, friends.

sd	I've heard some people, grumble about their, cars passing their emission tests, and things,	b	Huh uh.

sd	and how it's more expensive and things.	b	Huh uh.

sv	And I thought, well, it's so much better.	sd	They say it has really made a difference, though.

b	Huh uh.	sd	Now, see, we don't have that here, yet.

qy^d	you don't.	nn	No,

b	Huh uh.	sd	I have read that, that it has really helped where where the population is greater,

b	Huh uh.	sd	and that it has made a difference.

qh	I mean, well, think about how many automobiles there are.	b	Huh uh.

sd	one of our cars is an older car,	b	Huh uh.

sd	and every time you start it, from the tail pipe, it makes a black spot, on the cement,	b	Huh uh.

sd	And you know that is a sign.	^2	Something is coming out,

sv	And all cars are doing that.	b	Yeah.

sv	And it's really polluting the air.	b	Yeah.

sv	And it's causing of lot of the real terrible suffering like cancer, and things,	b	Huh uh.

sv	We sure wouldn't want, so much more people suffering from that.	b	Huh uh.

b	Huh uh.	sv	Then, we have to pay for them to pay somebody to carry it away someplace,

b	Huh uh.	sv	And we're paying to have our air polluted and our water streams polluted.

ba	Pretty sad.	sd	the one area they want to put the incinerator is right in the middle of the two water sheds that feed Clarion river.

ba	no.	sv	And, you know, it just boggles our mind that they can consider even putting it there, because, if that water gets contaminated, it will go on down to Pittsburgh.

b	Huh uh.	sv	it affects so many people.

b	Huh uh.	sv	And it's just hard to think that they could allow them to do things like this.

sv	It's scary .	b	Huh uh.

sv	It's scary.	aa	It really is.

fc	It's helped me to think more about some issues that I need to be thinking more about .	fc	It is really a concern.

fc	Huh uh.	fc@	So, * slash error Huh uh.

fc	Thank you.	fc	Huh uh.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

sd^t	Miss Nancy, we should be in business now.	bk	Good.

qy^t	Did you hear the questions that the lady, brought up?	ny	Yes.

qw	and how many do you have?	sd	We have two children,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we're a fairly close knit family.

sd	I have two girls and a son,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And my oldest daughter lives in Amsterdam, Holland.	b	Oh.

sd	so it's kind of hard for us to visit with them, as much as I'd like to. Because we, one thing we do have together is we're both musicians.	ba	yes.

sd	and, she is a, a concert, harpsichordist. And travels around a good bit in Europe.	b	Uh huh.

sd	which are harpsichord size pianos.	b^m	Pianos, uh huh.

sd	And then I have a son who lives in, Warrington, Pennsylvania.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so they, I don't hardly get to see any of them.	bf	you don't get to see any of yours very often.

sd	They work, they're really both, people who play on stage	b	Yes,

sd	and, they're running lights right now and audio and that thing for, plays and things that go on.	b	Uh huh.

qw	what activities do you do with your children when you are together?	sd	well, right now it's football season,

b	Oh.	sd	so she and the three boys and my husband and I went over into Fort Worth to see the space exhibit

qy	The Soviet space exhibit?	ny	Uh huh.

ba	My goodness.	aa	Yeah

sv	I am surprised they would bring anything over here.	sd	I think it came here in either September or October

ba	I'll bet.	sv	and it's been very well done .

b	Uh huh.	sd	then when our son's over, we have a pool,

ba	Well, that sounds like you have really, wonderful activities that keep you together.	sd	And, we do a lot with with our kids,

b	Yeah.	sd	We've taken a lot of trips with our kids when they were younger.

o@	Well, that's wonderful. * slash error: should be ba Uh huh. / * slash error, should be 'b'	sd	and the kids seem to enjoy being with us,

^g	doesn't it?	na	Well, it does .

ba	Beautiful.	sd	and they go out to you know, the in laws in between some of this,

b	Uh huh.	sd	then have Christmas dinner with us and then go to other in laws and things,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my sister and her husband are coming down,

sv	and you seem to be making out all right.	aa	Yeah.

qo	what do you think of the current trends of how other people spend time with their children and so forth?	sv	I think the trends are going back to spending more time with families.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think parents are definitely, spending more and more time.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Seems like it went through a spell there where families weren't that big a deal.

sd	of course, I find now that I spend more time with my grandchildren in detail.	b	uh huh.

qw	Kate, where do you like to eat out?	sd	Well, we really like the Mexican food, you know, here in Texas

b	Yes.	sd	so we try and go around to different Mexican restaurants trying them out,

qy	Have you tried Mother Mesquites?	nn	No.

sd	That's at Skillman and L B J	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's where Skillman, curves into Forest Lane	b	Uh huh.

sd	Another real good one is, Rafael's down on McKinney Avenue.	b	Oh.

sd	They're both very good.	bh	Really?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	we haven't explored, you know, too many places.

b	uh huh.	b	yeah,

^2	El Chico's or El Fenix one,	aa	yeah,

b	uh huh	b	uh huh,

sd	Well, I like Tia's better than I do El Chico's or El Fenix.	b	Yeah,

sd	I like it better than just about anything	aa	yes.

sv	and they make very good fajitas there in their own, homemade flour tortillas that are just absolutely wonderful.	aa	Yes.

sv	Especially with butter and honey on them .	b	Uh huh,

sd	so do I.	sd	Just can't make those flour tortillas.

qo	Well, what else do you like?	sd	Well, I love seafood

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I notice they have like you know, The Louisiana Purchase,

qy	Have you eaten there?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, the service has always been so strange, every time I've been in there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I hear at night though they have, you know, the outdoor, bar,

b	Uh huh.	sv	So, it's really good. All their blackened grill stuff.

sd	we like, for the spicy, we like Atchafalaya's out on Belt Line, in Addison	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's a good restaurant.	ba	well that sounds great.

sd	for one of the best fish restaurants in town is either Vincent's there in Plano or, I believe it's a Rusty Scupper over on, Dallas Parkway in Addison, which is absolutely wonderful.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They have every kind of fish that you could imagine you'd want	b	Uh huh.

sv	If you want a really special night out and fish food that's a good place to go.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can remember when our children were small.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we had a lot of McDonalds when they were first coming out.	b	Yeah

sd	I can't look a McDonalds in the face now.	aa	I know,

sv	Well, Taco Bueno's good .	sv	and cheap too.

b^m^r	and cheap.	b	Yeah,

ba	Sounds like my grandchildren.	b	Yeah,

aa	yes.	b	yeah.

sd	and it's either T V dinners at home or we go out to eat.	b	Yeah,

sd	And I would much rather go out to eat than T V dinners .	aa	me too,

aa^r	no.	sd	And, you know, on the weekends there's always things to do,

sd	I like breakfast out.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I like the IHOP there in Plano.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	and I don't know what it was.

sv	now that's surprising because normally they're real good.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I like because they're, even if they're crowded, they're fast service, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	don't have to wait forever for a table.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And we also like Owens, country sausa ,	^2	family restaurant.

aa	yeah	b	Uh huh.

sd	We think it's good.	sd	Now I haven't been there befo ,

sd	It's good.	qy^d	So. Now have you been to Applebee's.

ny^r	yes.	b^m	Yes.

sd	And we like Applebee's.	aa	Yes,

sd	I like up there in Plano, that, Country Steak House.	b	Oh.

qy	Have you tried it?	na	I've been there twice,

sd	and we go for the salad bar.	b^m	Salad bar,

sd	I know they have a waiting list and a quota on immigration now.	sd	I've lost track.

qo	What, What? What all do you know about it?	b	 okay ,

b	Yeah.	sd	My wife when she talked about the Middle East

b	Uh huh.	sv	out of all the Asians we brought in, there's a tremendous criminal element that we let in from Asia

aa	That's right.	sd	I mean this Asia mafia thing is getting out of hand.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't, I didn't know what, I don't even know what our controls are.

sv	I don't think there's much of one, because I'm sure all the people from Cuba have been released from that camp that they were in.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, it's just like Australia, most of them were criminals from Cuba	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think that was just an attempt that Fidel Castro to undermine, you know the United States to some extent.	b	Yeah.

sv	And it's almost the same thing in, from Asia, because a lot of them was put out of business in Vietnam after the war,	^2	Because we,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm sympathetic,

b	Right.	sd	So I'm sympathetic,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but that's not really exactly immigration.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the Mexican kids get a good education along the way,

sd	and a lot of the Mexican people just cross the border during the daytime to come over here and work	b	Uh huh.

sd	I run into people every day that can't speak English.	b	yeah.

h	so, So, I don't know,	b	Yeah.

bf	like you said, I don't know how much they're taking from the work force, you know.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	of course you mentioned the language.

b	Uh huh.	sv	so that we wouldn't have the language barrier certainly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I feel bad about that .

sv	and that's, you know, one reason that I did it is because whenever you travel anywhere near the border, you know, there more and more people speak Spanish.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they're always finding drugs you know, on the most, innocent looking kind of	b	Yeah.

sd	but a dog found it the other day, you know on the border.	b	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That certainly was interesting,

aa	That's right.	sv	So we all immigrants, one way or another, well

sd	and one of the things that really gets to me, about the Mexicans is that, once they have children over here, their children are American citizens then.	aa	yeah,

sd	So, And they, you know, and, and they just follow the rule no matter, you know.	b	Yeah,

sv	So that doesn't seem fair to the children.	sv	sometimes common sense should take over rather than,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You would think they could at least get a, a visa or something until they, get citizenship.

sd	and then they granted them amnesty if they could prove, when was that, it was in the eighties some time if they could prove they'd been here five years.	b	yeah.

sd	And, a lot of them had been, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	but most of them don't ever want to go back to Mexico,	b	Yeah.

sd	especially the way it was then.	b	no.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know how much immigration we have from Europe and everything.

sd	I think most, you know, like especially the celebrities and everything, well, they have to get a green card if they going to do any kind of work, you know, in movies and such.	b	Yeah.

sd	But most of them have temporary visas.	b	Yeah.

sd	but when Rafael Septien took the job with the Cowboys they had to offer his job to any other applicant that could do it.	b	Yeah.

sd	and that's the thing with the jobs.	b	Yeah.

sd	And of course no one beat him out.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, you know. He just ruined his own career,	b	well yeah.

b	Yeah	sd	well it's still interesting after all this time that we're probably one of the few countries that people are still desperately trying to immigrate to.

b	Uh huh.	sv	maybe immigration from Europe to here will you know slowly, change,

aa	I think so.	sv	It has, doesn't seem so far.

sd	Because there are other j , job opportunities, in Europe that there aren't here you know, even,	b	Uh huh.

sd	like orchestra players can find a job sometimes in Europe when they can't find one here.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I'm a trumpet player.	qy	Are you a teacher?

sd	and I was a music major for a while.	b	really,

sd	So, so he had to have a work visa there.	b	Yeah.

sd	And of course they had a lot of musicians from other countries in the Mexico City Symphony.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I think, like three out of the four other people in the trumpet section are from Mexico now.	b	really.

sd	But I think I don't know, or one of the conductors is from another country.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's like any other symphony.	b	Yeah

sv	Well, I think we pay too much in taxes.	b	Yeah.

qo	How about you?	sv	Well, I think they waste what we pay.

br	Excuse me?	sv	I think they waste all the money that we pay .

sd	and that particular state had an occupational income tax, but no sales tax.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it's a heavy sales tax.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So they get you coming and going.	sd	Now it's even higher in Dallas County,

ny	Yeah,	qy^d	It's eight and a quarter I think.

sd(^q)	I said, eight percent. What ?	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it just seems like, if you're strictly middle income, it seems like you get hit the worst.	b	Yeah.

qy	Is that what you think?	ny	Yeah,

qy^g	Doesn't seem quite fair, does it?	nn	No,

sd	Because they have the money to shelter things	br	What?

qy^d	I thought you were going to say something.	nn	Huh uh.

sd	don't make that kind of money.	b	Right.

h	I don't know.	sd	I mean, if they're in business, and they're making money,

b	Uh huh.	sv	then they should pay taxes then.

sd	mean you look at like, that country singer, what's his name, Willie Nelson.	b	Uh huh.

^q*	Why didn't he pay his taxes? You know. / * listen	aa	Right.

sv	In a way, it's almost like he had so much debt that, filing bankruptcy was a way to get out of all of it you know.	b	Right.

qrr@	* slash error And do you feel like you get hit by, you know, too much?	sd	I just file federal income tax every year.

sd	so we're in the same kind of,	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	doesn't that sound stupid.	ny	Uh huh.

sd*	But, I mean, there's actually less tax implication if I don't work full time compared to what my husband does, you know. / * are the final "you knows" tags?	b	Right.

sd	So it's kind of hard.	sd	Whoever works less, they can get a tax credit for that.

br	Excuse me.	sd	If both of the spouses work, then you get a tax credit for that.

aa	Yeah	b	Uh huh.

sd	and if you have kids, you get like seven hundred fifty dollars or something .	sd	Well, it's two thousand now.

bh	it is.	ny	Yeah,

ba	my.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well that's not too bad.	sd	Then you get a child care exemption,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they only give you like, I think it's about five or ten percent of that.

ba	my goodness.	sv	You know, it's not even,

fc	I guess I better go .	fc	okay.

fc	well it was nice talking to you.	fc	Nice talking to you.

qy	Do you have any children?	ny	yes,

sv	so I'm going to have difficulty with this topic.	bk	okay.

qo	But, what kinds of things do you and your family do?	sd	well, we go out and fly kites

o@	* slash error should be 'b' Uh huh. / * slash error should be 'b'	sd	And we go to movies

ba	That's great.	sd	Well, I'm divorced,

b	Yeah.	sd	And we color a lot

ba	That's great.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think a lot of families now, they probably don't spend enough time together.	b	Yeah.

sv	And the communication helps just, just build your family.	b	Uh huh

ba	to me that's pretty rare.	sd	I know.

sd	maybe just even, if we just rent a movie and watch it together just to make sure that everybody's not going out and doing and their her own thing all the time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, I don't think you should spend too much time outside at the detriment of losing the family unit.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	They're all grown up

o@	but, * slash error you know, kids these days are growing up so much faster. / * slash error, should be sv	b	Yeah.

sv	And once they hit like ten or eleven or twelve, you know, you've pretty much lost them .	aa	Yeah,

qy	So, do you think that your family is pretty rare in that you do a lot of things or just the relationship between you and your daughter?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, not usually on the weekends we don't see very many in comparison.

qo	What kinds of things do you think can?	sv	Well, I think they can turn off the T V for one thing. and go out and do stuff, you know.

b@	* slash error I think that's the first thing a lot of people do	sd	Because she always likes to do things whenever the T V s off.

sd	first thing I did was turn the TV on. Because I taped the stories from earlier today.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I think that's another reason why people are, so health conscious now is because America's becoming really a couch potato society.	b	Uh huh.

sv	That's also something, you know, family oriented that everyone can do.	b	Yeah.

qw	how old is she?	sd	she's five.

b	yeah.	sd	She can't hit it in the air yet,

sv	You've still have a lot of time before she gets up in years .	ny	Uh huh.

ba^r	That's good.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well it was very nice talking to you.	fc	Nice talking to you.

fc	Okay.	fc	Okay.

qy@	Okay. do you have young children? / * two utts	ny	Uh huh,

qy	well, then you are familiar with it?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	and I know, well, two of them have gone to preschool.	b	Uh huh.

qo	Why don't you tell me what you have found.	sd	with our second sitter, the first one didn't quite work out, there were some things going on that I wasn't really happy with

qy^d	You took them to someone's home?	ny	Uh huh.

qy	Well, both times?	ny	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I worked in the child care centers

b	uh huh.	sd	And then I just decided that I was just missing a lot of their time whether they were so little

sd	we didn't necessarily have a lot of things ,	b	Yeah

o@	and, to have three in day care, you know, even though one of them's in school full time, one of them's, you know, in kindergarten. * need a slash, should be sd ?? That is a lot of money. / * slash err should be sv	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean it's so expensive.	b	yeah.

sv	You have to really make a lot of money.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I'm glad that she gets to stay home so that she can then participate with what's going on in their life.	b	Yeah.

sv	bosses don't always seem to understand getting off to go to Christmas programs in the middle of the day or something.	aa	no,

sd	and the middle grandson went there as like a preschool thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so like, I think he went, well, five mornings a week, if I remember correctly.	ba	Wow.

sd	you know, starting to learn the colors and learning to associate with children so that when he went to, you know, school and stuff,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was like a little kindergarten.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They even familiarized the children with computers.	b	Oh.

sd	it was really a very excellent one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He's in kindergarten.	b	Oh.

sd	This was last year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, you know, it helped him and the first one, he went to a, church preschool that was very good.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The Methodist Church in Richardson.	b	Oh.

sd	very good.	sd	My little boy goes to the Methodist, in Garland.

bh	does he?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	the church ones, church ones seem to be very well run.	sd	Well, I've heard that the Methodist ones are excellent.

bh	really?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	I just assumed that most churches, going by, you know experience there, you know, that they were good.	b	Yeah.

sd	I I didn't know that, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just know that, you know, First United Methodist of Richardson was just a great program.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I'm real happy with that.

qy^g	it's a pretty good size church, too, isn't it?	ny	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

qy	So, Well, are you enjoying staying home?	ny	Yes,

b	uh huh.	sd	and, I taught early childhood

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I just couldn't get the time off to,

qy	Well, isn't it very hard to teach young children and then come home and deal with young children. And have enthusiasm.	ny	Yeah,

sv	if I owned a company and I wanted to make sure that it was run smoothly and that the people that I had, coming in, were trust worthy, et cetera, and so on, I think I would, probably do the random testing just to insure that my company, runs safely and smoothly.	b	Yeah.

b	Huh uh.	am	Maybe.

b	Yeah.	sv	and it's, it's, if it's not affecting someone's performance then I'm not sure if it's a problem.

b	Yeah.	sv@	if it's a position where it could potentially affect, * slash error if, if,

sv	like for instance, if someone's working on heavy machinery, or say driving trucks or city buses or something like that.	aa	Right.

sv	You know, if you're drinking or on drugs or whatever, you're driving a city bus you taking several lives in your hands.	aa	Right.

sv	If more and more people are using drugs then I think that some people have to guard against people that are using drugs.	b	Huh uh.

sv	and I think the drug testing is something that the drug users have to cope with.	b	Yeah.

aap	I think that may be.	sd	If you use drugs, you won't get the job.

qy	You know, what I'm saying?	sd	I don't know,

sd	I don't know what the, you know, limits are.	sd	I don't know

b	Yeah.	sd	Things like L S D, I guess, stay forever.

aa	yeah.	sd	I mean, there must be some, something,

b	 Yeah.	sd	so I don't really know.

sd	just the fact that since I don't use drugs, I have no problem with taking a test.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	and I'm at most a social drinker,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	so it's never a problem.

sv	If you don't have anything to hide, you're not going to mind it.	b	Right.

sv	And then there are some things that just aren't peoples business, that come out at that point	aa	Right.

sv	so I think that a lot of people have trouble with that.	sv	But, that's a fine line to draw.

b^r	Huh uh.	qh	do you, do you worry about, you know, this or that,

b	Yeah.	qh	I mean, you know, what about the rights, to privacy,

b	Huh uh.	qh	what if they're doing something legal,

aa	Right.	sv	Like, especially in the case of drinking.

sd(^q)	And I was going, you know, What in the world.	ba	Well, those are just,

qy	Is that what it was?	sd	I'm a graduate student in Psych.

bk	okay.	sd	And we sort of, you know, figure out,

b	Huh uh.	sd	What they're trying to do there is, they want to sort of get a base line measure for you, you know.

sd^2	Kind of get, Kind of get something to measure my responses by.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	am	Maybe .

qy^d@	You know. * slash error But I guess, I don't know, some people have probably killed their mothers.	ny	Yeah.

h	I don't know .	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah	sv	Big jump there.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think it's their way of saying how well you do, in a shock situation without worrying about, stuff like that.

sd	Of course, that was years and years ago.	b	Yeah.

o@	And * slash error I don't think I mean, there are some people, I mean,	b	Yeah,

sv	You know, when they might be actually trying to, improve their lives.	b	Yeah.

b	Huh uh.	sv(^q)	well, look, unless they walk in, they could walk in and say, look, I did do drugs a year ago,

b@	Huh uh. * slash error Huh uh.	^q	and I'm off them for a year now.

sd	And I would probably bring something in showing that I had been to such and such hospital for help or, you know, Whatever the twelve month program.	b	Yeah.

sd	Or whatever it is that they do.	b	Yeah.

b	Huh uh.	sd	But I don't really know.

b^r	Yeah.	sd	My wife probably does.

b	Yeah.	sd^t	But, it's an interesting topic that I never actually thought about .

sd^t	The other day we had talked about, capital punishment.	b	I .

sd	I'm kind of, you know, in the middle on that one.	aa	Yeah.

aa	really.	sv	So I think that's real good.

fc	It was very nice talking to you.	fc	Nice talking to you to.

fc	Take care.	fc	Bye bye.

bh	Do you?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's pretty varied.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't think I've ever met a type of music I don't like except for, maybe, you know, heavy metal and that.	sd	That's exactly me.

b	Yeah.	sd	Even some of that I like okay but not, mostly, as a general rule,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't care for that at all.

sd	that doesn't appeal to, my ears.	sd	Well, as far as the rap goes, I think there are a few artists that appeal to me themselves

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I like some of their songs.

bk	Oh.	sd	I agree, with the general rule, I wouldn't choose rap either.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I like to listen to, what you might call pop, easy listening country western, jazz classical,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like, like I said, pretty varied, music.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have a couple that my husband really hates that I listen to, like Billy Holiday

b	Oh .	sd	I really love to listen to her,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I even have a tape of Lady Smith Blackman Bazo

ba	gosh.	sv	and, well, I mean, they're very harmonic

b	Uh huh	sv	they really are.

ba	sure.	sv	So, they're interesting to listen to.

sd	I play guitar for the jazz combo.	bh	yeah?

sv@	you just can't listen to it for enjoyment * slash error Yeah, unless you're playing it, /* sv	bf	you have to concentrate on it, it seems.

sv	it just doesn't do anything.	qw	What about the blues or something like that?

sd	My dad is a big blue grass fan,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, I really do like it a lot.	sd	I like some of it,

sd^r	it doesn't.	sv	some of it sounds more like pop music.

sv	, they've all got, you know, the real screechy electric guitars now.	aa	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I even liked Jim Reeves you know

sd@	I grew up on him. * slash error Uh huh.	sd	or, what Merle Haggard and Faron Young

b	Uh huh.	sd	that type of country western is what I like to listen to.

b	Sure.	sd@	Asleep At The Wheel. * all caps for titles Sons of the Pioneers, you know, stuff like that. / * all caps for titles

b	Yeah.	sd	I like sound tracks a lot.

bh	do you?	ny	Yeah,

sv	you sure do.	sd	I mean, you know, think about like the Twin Peaks and stuff like that that's just real recent

b	Yeah.	sd	things like that I like to listen to.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have some Spiro Gyro tapes.

ba	they're great aren't they.	aa	they're wonderful.

b	Yeah.	sd	I love them.

aa	yeah.	sd	Al Jarreau, he's somebody I like.

sv	he has a nice smooth voice.	aa	yeah,

b	sure.	sv	I mean, some people sing,

b	Sure.	sd	And he is real fun to listen to.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Bonnie Rait, I like her a lot.

b	Uh huh.	sd	in fact, whenever she won her big Grammy

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think it was like five of them or something

b	Uh huh.	qr	was it five,

qy^g	it was last, last year wasn't it.	ny	Yeah,

sd	Well, ironically enough I'm sitting here with a cast on my leg because I resumed an aerobics class the night before last.	ba	no.

sd	I ripped the ligaments in my right ankle.	ba	Gosh.

b	Yeah	sv	Exercise is not supposed to do that to you.

qo	Do you do anything on a regular basis?	sd	Well, off and on,

sd	I, My husband's a T I er in the unit here.	b	Yeah,

qy	when you go over there does it bother you in terms of how things are arranged, either at the Dallas location or the Spring Creek, in terms of, it's so much of a weight orientation, weight lifting, et cetera.	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	At least since they've redone it, supposedly redone.

sd	Even the Spring Creek one has a lot of weights in it.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Or is that what your into	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't use the free weights

sd	I like the tread mill and the stair master myself over there.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And the pool when it gets warmer.	aa^m	And the pool,

sd	and then like they had about three feet of linoleum around the perimeter in the back where I usually stand in any class like that I go to.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Instead of having that level, you know they had a chrome strip that wasn't level,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it was about four inches deep and then about, oh a seventy degree angle.	ba	my goodness.

sd	The orthopedist called it a, basketball injury where the ankle just rolls under you, and it snapped.	ba	Woo.

sd	and he just put a big old cast on it.	b^m	Put a big cast on it.

sd	for about four weeks.	b^m	Four weeks,

sd	Well, I like aerobics,	bf	Well not that much, though.

sd	like this orthopedist said, he said you'd be surprised how many people come in here with things like that because they are active.	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess you could say.	b	Yeah.

sd	Because I got up and started jumping on it again.	ba	Well that did a lot of good,

sd	I mean, I like the music and that kind of stuff.	b	Yeah.

qy	In aerobics?	nn^r	no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And when I came down I hit with my full weight on my foot, but on concrete.

qy	Did they have to cast it?	ny	Yeah,

bf	so the impact, would not be good.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't do any jumping up and down because it makes it hurt.

qy	So, I mean, are you, in terms of other things, like, not running, but playing a little bit of tennis, can you not do stuff like that at all?	no	well I haven't tried that.

b	Yeah.	sd	Mostly into just walking and stuff like that.

sd	because I notice in aerobics a lot of the women that don't look like they shouldn't be doing certain things	b	Uh huh.

sv	I'm always afraid they're going to fall over and have a coronary.	b	Yeah .

sd	and half the time though I don't jump half as much as,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but when you go easy a hundred seventy at my height, I'm five eleven you need just take it easy.	ba	Sure.

sv	all that pounding all the time.	sd	really, it's not really good for your knees.

sd	this was just, I guess, something freak that happened to me,	ba	Well, the floor was uneven.

^q	that's just the way it's constructed.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	I said, who has engineered that? .	ba	Really .

qy	one thing that I like, like swimming, you like that a lot?	ny	Uh huh,

qr	do you like to exercise because you want to or because you have to?	nn	No,

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	If I don't do it I just feel like I don't have as much energy.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It curbs the appetite and helps with the calories and all that stuff.	aa	Yeah

b	Yeah	b	Yeah,

aa	I know .	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	he says, even if you weren't doing anything that would start to happen to you.	aa	Yeah,

sv	maybe ten to fifteen pounds like any other human being.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they're all like twenty one years of age .	b	Uh huh.

sd	But luckily at there's a little more diverse clientele.	aa	That's true,

sv	They do intimidate.	aa	Yeah.

sd	but, you know, sometime when I ask, I just feel like, boy, am I stupid or what.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And his name is B J.

sd	I've been there like, maybe a dozen times.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I actually like that site better than the other one just because of the type people that go to.	b	Uh huh.

sv	sometimes I feel like I'm in a singles bar .	aa	Yeah,

sv	It's not at all anything worth talking about.	b	Yeah.

sv	but if you don't live near there that's not worth,	b	Yeah.

sd	Richardson, over on Campbell and Park Hill there's a new recreation center.	b	Uh huh.

sd	great, I have purple tights on, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	but he just said to me, maybe you ought to try bicycling	b	Yeah,

sd	He told me eight to twelve weeks.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I couldn't, you know adjust that.	ba	I know what you mean.

sv	You know more about this stuff than I do, obviously then,	ba	Not fun .

qy^d	Well, you're walking okay now obviously,	ny	yeah,

qo^d	Well, anything else about exercise we can talk about.	o	Well, other than I need to go.

sd	I need to go actually get something to eat here.	sv	It's great though,

fc	thank you, Sandy.	fc	Sure,

qo	Do you have any particular thoughts about the school system?	sv	I'm not sure if it's more a problem with American families or a problem with the school system.

aa	I agree with you a hundred percent there .	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	If, you've some kid who's from a broken family, the schools are supposed to fill that void.

sv	and you can't expect in a classroom for a particular course an hour a day to counteract, sixteen or seventeen years of influence at home.	b	Right.

sd	and other teachers find the same things in this child.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	And, you know, how do you tell the parent, hey, wake up, and smell the coffee .	b	Right.

sv	and I'm not sure just, how the school system could operate in a vacuum on it.	b	Yeah.

sv	Whether maybe through a commitment of the P T A, and the parents being informed better, that in fact that the problems that are nationwide are problems, of society, and that the school can only do so much on it.	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	sv	you can't really expect that parent who's, quite frankly a loser in life, as it is to care about the situation with their child,

sv	You know what scares me too, is that we have yet to see the biggest effect of the crack children in the school system.	b	Right.

sv	These are children that are born with low attention deficit	b	Right.

sv	That's really scary .	b	Yeah.

sv	They're behavior problems.	b	Right.

sv	And so, they get put in, in our school system, in a class that's limited for skills children that really have to master skills.	b	Uh huh.

sv	There's no bridge area for students coming out of the E S O L, which is English for Speakers of Other Languages program.	b	Uh huh.

sv	they got thrown right into the total mainstream	b	Right.

sv	and, there really needs to be a bridge, some sort of transition for that.	b	Right.

sv	So the school systems can improve, both in standing up for splitting classes, you know, having learning, slow children in slow classes, but not mixing them with behavior problems.	b	Right.

sv	you get these kids that are average students but highly motivated.	b	Right.

sv	the average classes really are problems because you've got such a mixed bag there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, the gifted and talented are fast classes.	sd	Well, I've seen more, incredibly intelligent underachievers than, than,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I will, I would take a person who's motivated and a little, less intelligent than the person who, is one of these very intelligent people who just kind of, isn't motivated to do anything.

sd	I remember I had a college professor who once said that genius is one percent inspiration, and ninety nine percent perspiration.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they proved out late when it came time to take the S A T s.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they weren't great.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, when I got into college I struggled just to, get my degree in the field that I was in.

b	Yeah.	sd	Whereas I knew people that in high school were kind of lazy and all,

sv	I guess kids do mature at different ages too.	b	Right.

sd	or is he a problem child.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But teachers are asked to diagnose so much.	b	Right.

sv	but you can't operate in a vacuum.	qy	You actually have students with beepers?

no	we're in a rather wealthy suburb of Washington.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And a student with a beeper immediately gets sent down to the, principal.	qo	what could they possibly be thinking.

sd	They can't imagine for anything else.	b	Yeah

sd	and you refer them to the nurse.	b	Right.

sd	And, so, I mean, you have to find out whether there's a legitimate reason, or whether this is a warning signal.	b	Yeah,

qh@	And parents frequently resent when you ask them. Is there a problem that we should be aware of? / * 2 utts	b	Oh yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the barber got a call while I was there, from his son's school.

sv	and so many parents are facilitators.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, they're manipulated by their children.	b	Right.

sd	I have, a son who's a sophomore in college up in Massachusetts at, Amherst,	b	Uh huh.

sd	They're both national level swimmers,	ba	Sure.

sd	but, you know, they had to be held accountable too.	b	Right.

sv	but you have to say at what point isn't the help becoming negative.	ba	Sure.

sv	And I think this is where the school system is suffering, and not through any fault of the effort of the school system.	b	Right.

fc	But gee it was good talking with you.	fc	It was good talking to you too.

fc	so there are people throughout the country that feel the same ways that you do, and are connected with the schools.	fc	Yeah.

fc	Uh huh.	fc	It's amazing how the, you know, people you talk to have some interesting conversations

fc	Well, we are, though .	fc	Yeah,

fc	Take care,	fc	Yep.

sd	but my mother's always been administrator of a nursing home	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I've always been involved, you know, in one.	qo	How do you feel about them, I mean, since you've kind of been close to that.

sd	I would personally be the last resort you know, you know if I had to put someone in there.	b	Uh huh.

aa	yeah.	sd	and, she put him in,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I guess, the one time that I saw him there, you know, as far as the surroundings, that seemed okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, we kind of thought that maybe they just wanted to give him some medication to sort of, you know keep him real out of it all the time

b	Yeah.	sd	and that's always kind of bothered me.

sd@	Well, I kind of think that's true, too. I guess, because it's so under staffed, you know / * slash error; two utts	b	Uh huh.

sv	that's like everything else, though.	sd	I have a sister in law who runs a nursing home,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know that she's the kind of person who wouldn't allow, you know, a lot of the horror things to take place that you hear about.

nd	Yeah,	sv	But still I'm sure there are, you know, aspects to it that aren't really desirable.

sv	But still there's those little things that happens, you know	b	Yeah.

sv	I think, it's a wonderful place, you know, if it comes to that, you know, if you just can't take care of them any more.	sv	Well, sometimes you don't have any other alternative

aa	that's it.	sv	family and friends are usually, well family's tied up with their own lives and things, and usually working

sd	but I think when the time comes, I hope to have the time to really look around, you know and pick one that I really think my mother would be happy at.	aa	Yes.

sv	Outside's awful deceiving sometimes you know.	aa	Yes.

b	Yeah.	sd	But then if you deteriorate, they have a separate section for those who need care you know, all the time.

b	Yeah.	sd	and they have a long waiting list, too.

b	yeah.	sv	but then, you don't want to go do that when you don't have to because like, you have to give up your automobile or whatever.

sd	and everything you worked so hard for all your life	b	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sv	So that's a hard one,

sd	There's also, you know, some private ones, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	but of course, I would never be able to afford to put my parents in something like that, you know,	aa	Yeah,

sd	that's way out of my reach.	sv	and, another thing I hate to see is when someone has a small amount of money, and they go into one of these places and they just eat it all up immediately.

b	yeah.	sv	But those who don't have money can go in and get the same care. You know .

aa	yeah.	sd	So I don't like that aspect.

sv	like, they could put it in one of their children's names or something you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, it's their money.	aa	That's right.

sd	You know, that's how I feel about it, anyway.	b	Well, yeah,

b	Yes.	qh	But, you know, what if.

sd	but she's still on her own, I mean.	b	Yeah,

sd	and then on the other hand, I've seen some people go into the nursing home and just so happy you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	they're not lonely.	sd	Some of those places have wonderful activities and things, you know, lots of stuff going on.

b	uh huh.	sd	And they'll take them places

b	Yeah.	h	so. I don't know,

aa	No.	sv	but I guess once you get ill, then, you know, you really have some problems if you can't get around and do things.

sd	But I really don't know what the other solution would be you know,	b	No.

sd	when the time comes hopefully we'll really look around before I decide on one for my parents	b	Uh huh.

sd	so there's lot of things I know to look for.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I don't think they'd want to go where they used to work, either you know .	b	Yeah.

sd	I really don't.	sv	That might be kind of tough,

fc	And I guess we'd better get back to work,	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qy^g	up there, maybe you guys don't have as, big a problem with air pollution as many, do you?	sd	we, we have a terrible air pollution problem.

bh	Do you really?	sd	Our summers are extremely, hazardous

b	Uh huh.	sd	and during, certain wind directions because we get the, Gary, Indiana Chicago pollution

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we can look out on the lake and just see the brown haze, coming up along the lake.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they do post, warnings for people who have, heart diseases or respiratory problems during that summer season.

b	Uh huh.	sd	In the winter it's not as severe.

b	Right.	sd	But, if the wind comes basically from the south it can be really bad.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the State of Wisconsin, as a matter of fact, started some litigation against Illinois because of the air pollution we were getting.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't think it's going to go very far,

aa^r	right.	qw	So what's the conditions like in Dallas?

sd	due to the, the emissions, control on the vehicles, seems that all of our, smog was caused by vehicles rather than industry.	sd	Wisconsin has a law in which we need to take our cars in every year when we apply for a new license tag and they are tested for, their pollution control equipment,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and if they don't qualify then they have to take it to a mechanic and have it gone over and then verify that it is drivable.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, there seem to be, at least in certain little pockets,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Madison has one of the nicest, bike, road, sharing programs of any city in Wisconsin

b	really.	sd	and all Wisconsin has probably the most extensive number of, bike trails for recreational use of any of the states.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And there is a real promotion of biking

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, there are still a lot of people who insist on driving their own automobiles to go everywhere.

b	Right.	sv	I find that a little irritating, because I don't think it's always so necessary.

sd(^q)	I notice people in Dallas seem to say, Well, sure, there's air pollution, but, you know, really, how bad could this problem really be.	ad	send them to Wisconsin,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they'll, they may wake up, you know,

b	Right.	sv	It's, really a serious issue for those of us up in this, sector up here.

qr	or does it come mostly from industry up there?	sv	I think it's mostly vehicles although it does come from some of the industry of the Gary area

b	Uh huh.	sd@	and, I don't know exactly where it emerges from when it's up in the, northern sectors of Wisconsin / * slash error with b.70: one utt

b	Uh huh.	sd	That I'm a little uncertain of,

sd^t	So the general topic is hobbies.	aa	Yes.

ad	Let's hear about your hobbies.	^h	Well, let's see,

qy	Any handicrafts?	br	Excuse me.

qy^r	Any handicrafts?	nn	No,

sd	So, I think I'm in handicraft.	b	yeah.

sd	I think it will become resume writing.	ba	well, let's hope that you aren't employed by that craft for too long.

sd	and I'm getting rather good at reading want ads.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah,	qw	what kind of time frame is it, looking for the, different shifts up there?

qh	who knows.	sd	basically, I had read that they're just looking at relocating them all to McKinney is it, Texas,

sd	all means about fifteen to twenty percent, of,	ba	wow.

sd	so, it's approximately six fifty,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and twenty percent would be one thirty.	ba	Wow,

aap	that's possible.	bh	How about that.

ny	yes, .	qy	Is it, many other corporations in the area?

no	I saw Seven Eleven that was hiring.	qy^g	I think it went to Lockheed, didn't it?

ny	Yes.	sd	I hear they're hiring all over the place for that.

sd	and, and that has some opportunities	bh	really?

ny	yes.	bh	How about that.

sd	and, M C I s coming if, telemarketing is your bag.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Personally I'd rather die a slow painful death	qr	Well, you in the, computer operations or in the actual, manufacturing?

sd	I'm, government tool control specialist.	b	Right,

qy	Are you still employed?	qy	Am I still employed by T I,

b	Oh.	sd	Actually, December was my first month away from them.

qr	Exempt or ?	sd	Exempt.

bk	yes.	sd	unfortunately I guess for myself it wasn't, it was purely by my own choice.

qy^d	so, you didn't even get the severance package.	nn	No.

qy	So, are you happy with what you are doing now?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	but as an overall package, I'd say I'm pretty happy so far with the way it's turned out.

sd	or I, I'm significantly shaken by the situation, but not devastated.	b	Uh huh.

sd	To tell you the truth, I'm, I'm not really worried.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I seem rather happy about it most of the time, just to know, what's, possibilities are, you know, what might happen.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But still in all, it feels funny.	sv	It may be a blessing in disguise.

sd	So, despite the fact that I should be tying flies or fly fishing or going for walks in the mountains, I can't seem to get into it right now.	ba	Exactly.

sd	I doubt I'll be here in six months.	b	Uh huh.

na	all things being equal, yes.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	or, or even somewhere better,	ba	Sure.

sv	but, God this is much better than west Texas.	b	Uh huh .

sd	But then they tell me Hell is much better than west Texas.	sv	Well, actually, the Plano, Dallas, Houston, you know, Austin that whole area is actually quite nice.

sd	my little brother lives in Austin right now.	sd	that's a beautiful place.

sd	Goes to U T.	b	Uh huh.

sd	For the last many years I've more or less let them direct what I want to do, and where I want to go. And just kind of go with the punches.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And now I feel lost.	b	Uh huh.

no	I had job offers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I never found the one that was worth it for me to leave.	b	Uh huh.

qy	so, had you been with T I long when you changed?	no	Five years.

sv@	Well, there's a noticeable difference there. / * two utts?	b	Yeah.

sd	I've been with them sixteen.	b	Yeah,

sv	momentum is, driving force in our lives.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm looking as a opportunity.	ba	Well, that's good,

sd	and I'm looking at it as a change.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I'm looking at it as an adventure.	ba	Right,

qy	how about we end this?	no	That will work out just fine.

fc	Nice talking to you.	fc	All right,

fc	Bye.	fc	Good bye.

sd	guess we got our first, credit card, back in the early seventies when, I first got married	b	Uh huh.

sd	was a Visa card. issued out of a Liberty Bank in Oklahoma City,	b	Uh huh

sd	because my sister worked at the some Bank Americard center there. / * one utt with a.3 utt2?	b	Uh huh.

sd	They've come in handy over the years.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they have become, also a real bother sometimes.	ba	tell me about it .

sv	Especially, you know, if you catch yourself short on cash or if you're on vacation, it's just easier to put everything on a card.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it adds up.	aa	Yeah,

sd	So, sometimes, especially traveling with T I, you know, everything goes on American Express,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it makes it a whole lot easier for bookkeeping.	b	Yeah.

sd	I kind of like having them for, gasoline purchases.	aa	Yeah,

sd	But other than that, I guess over the years tried to avoid the national credit card syndrome, of just putting everything on there day after day after day	b	Uh huh.

sv	and then, then you really get socked to it, if you don't watch it.	b	Yeah.

qo	how do you look at counting credit cards?	sd	We just, quit using them .

b	Right.	sd	but other than that we don't use them anymore .

sd	Well, that's kind of the way we were doing	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, if you got a bunch of cards, you get a bunch of bills every month	b	Uh huh.

sv	and for some strange reason those people think they need to get paid.	aa	I know,

sd	Sometimes, it's twenty two percent interest.	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess that's one of the motivations behind the, the, the, American Express card with T I,	b	Uh huh.

sd	with the American Express card from T I, there's no, late fee,	b	Uh huh .

sd	there's no, interest rate,	bh	really?

sv	So, they've got quite a bit more motivation I think to get paid then, some of the others do.	b	yeah.

sd	But that's the one that your call center manager sees every month,	b	Uh huh.

ny	yeah.	br	you can?

sd^e	You can use it like any other card,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, but, you know, you kind of, you know that somebody every month,	bk	I see,

sd	and who knows how many people, are looking at those, bills that come in, and those statements,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you're not the only one.	b	Yeah.

sd	is that okay, that those people see what it is that you are buying,	b	Yeah.

sd	I've got three card offers now, from gas companies and, Visa Gold and, some, , other bank,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I usually just throw them away because I, I don't want another one,	aa	I do too,

sd	You know you carry around a wallet full of credit cards,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, one of these days it's going to all be full.	sd	A girlfriend of mine found a,

ba	that's not bad.	sd	shoot I need one of those .

sd	if they don't say, no annual membership on them, I'll throw them away.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I said, adios, you know, I'm not paying you,	qw	Why do they do that?

sv	It's just another way to make money, as far as I can tell.	sv	I mean, I mean they get enough, you know, on the interest .

sv	they're going to get cards at twenty bucks a pop.	b	Uh huh.

sv	There's going to be that much more.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, then a couple years ago I found, a bank here in Plano that if you kept a minimum balance in any kind of account whether it was a savings account or what it was, you can get a Visa card through them and no annual membership.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, as long as they have no annual membership fee, it would be okay,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I can't see paying someone to use their card.	aa	No,

sv	Be charged their eighteen percent interest,	b	Yeah.

sv	The best philosophy is have them if you need them, but otherwise leave them tucked away somewhere.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	gets a lot of people in trouble .

fc	Thanks for talking.	fc	Nice talking to you.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd^t	but, I've been trying all different times,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)^t	so thought, I'll try ,	sd	well, I'm at, work

b	Oh .	sd	I've been gone for a little while .

sd	so I'm home certain days,	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	and, I really haven't been making any phone calls, have you?	sd^t	I haven't ever made any.

qy	have you received many?	no	I haven't here lately.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	well, the first time we were on this it came just about every day.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	They just always came .	aa	Yeah.

qo	what do you think? .	sd	Well, I never gave it any thought myself .

sv	I think it might be good for them.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But as a mother of two daughters I might be afraid of where they were sent.	aa	Exactly.

sd	I'm just concerned about their safety	b	Uh huh.

sv	because if they do good work in America they'll probably be sent to a ghetto .	b	Uh huh,

sd	And if they were sent to a third world country I couldn't help but wait worried, you know.	b	Yeah,

sd	That, that would be my main objection.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it will probably never happen	b	Yeah.

sv	well it probably won't.	b	Uh huh.

sv	We can't, seem to pay for all the little things we have going now .	b	Uh huh.

sv	That's another consideration .	aa	Exactly .

sv	it might be a real eye opener, you know .	aa	Really .

sd	they're just kind of shocked at that side of town, you know .	b	Uh huh.

sd	I probably lived in one of those when I was a little girl .	sd	I have a girlfriend that every time her son starts taking things for granted she threatens to send him to Mexico with her relatives and let him get a taste of that for a while .

qy^g	Well that would be an eye opener, wouldn't it?	qh	Wouldn't it though?

sd	I mean right next to us is such a pitiful country.	b	Uh huh,

sd	Sometimes I wish we'd help them out instead of going all across the world, and helping some countries I never even heard of.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it would be to our benefit to strengthen that country. Right on our borders.	b	Uh huh,

qy	you're in Lewisville.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	It looked really nice.	b	Yeah.

sd	It looked like a sight.	ad	Hang on a minute.

aa	Sure.	t3	I don't think so,

sd	Well, my husband works at T I over on Central.	b	Oh.

sd^t	we did it last time.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	they didn't even ask him back .	bh	Really?

sd^t	But like I said I hardly ever get any calls this time.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	And I can never find anybody.	sd^t	The first time I used to get calls from far away too.

b	Right.	sd^t	Like Maryland, and New Jersey,

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	but now it just seems like it's in the Dallas Fort Worth area that I get calls from.

sd^t	I've had the same experiences,	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	all right around here.	b	Uh huh.

sv	there's so many with this one town you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	even in some families some people talk a little bit different.	b	yeah.

sv	Of course, I think everybody in New Jersey sounds a little bit funny	aa	I agree.

o	You know, how that goes .	fe	shoot.

sd	Sometimes she says at night. or switc , or overloads	b	Yeah.

^q	so please end your conversation.	b	Uh huh,

qy	Well, do you have any more words of wisdom about the subject? .	nn	No,

qy	You don't have any kids you want to send over here? .	nn	No,

sd	she might .	sd	My sister is,

sd	but, for all practical purposes, I guess we hold the mortgage .	sd	Our name is on the till,

b	right.	sd	so that implies ownership.

sd	No one else has offered to pay for it.	aa	That's right.

sd	really they could move right into the spare room .	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Liked the area, chose to stay inside of Spring Park.

b	yeah,	sd	So, there's a lot of, you know, activities, a lot of pluses and common land.

bf	five years ago.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah,	sd	it bottom out about a year later.

sv	I mean just recently, I would say, I would give it two years back, when it was, I think, bottomed out.	aa	Oddly enough, two years, you know,

sd	see, it was just different areas,	sd	not in, this area.

sv	That's a really nice area.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	It's still considered Garland.	nn	No,

b	yeah.	sd	It's, Richardson

ad	Write that one down.	b	Yeah,

sd	It sounded good to me .	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	I don't think that many by the builder that built this house.

b	okay.	sd	It was built by the architect for himself, who never moved into it. Who sold it to a couple who had no idea that homes ever needed upkeep.

ba	no.	ba	yeah,

ba	gee.	sd	So, they just watched the water pour in on the carpet.

sd	I, kept thinking of Omar Sharif every time I saw that name somewhere,	sd	He builds eight hundred thousand dollar houses now.

ba	wow.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	And I think somebody told me it's also on a creek side lot, heavily wooded off the golf course.

ba	great.	b	Yeah,

sv	Probably eighty.	ar	I think it was sixty, eighty.

b^m	Sixty, eighty.	h	I think.

sv	so, I think the high end is definitely, you know somewhere there .	ad	Well, try and think if it was a hundred dollars a square foot .

b	Yeah.	sv	Just never.

b	Yeah.	qy	and, cause. Have you been back to the Perry Homes, back here?

br	the ones that look like brick houses ?	sd	The one that looks like Monopoly apartments.

sd	I just see him as trying to squish you know, as much house into the space as possible.	sd	They are huge when you are inside them.

b	Yeah.	sd	They are very spacious.

sd	And we thought that was important instead of getting swallowed up in something that you know.	sv	See, when you have kids, you like to be able to, send them some place where they can yell and you won't hear them.

aa	that's true.	sd	But, I have been watching these houses go up

b	Oh.	sv	When you watch them go up, you are just amazed that they do not fall over.

b	Yeah.	sd	And it takes them something like, thirty days to complete a house.

sd	They are putting in a deck, a redwood deck,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's just, they are doing such a fine, fine job.	sd	We have got three different levels of decking, because, this lot slopes way back down

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, the house is built around the trees.

ba	Great.	sd	And with these decking that a corporation and a large area for the trees to come up

b	Yeah.	sd	when the people from M C I come down

bf^2	Looks like the George Town brownstone .	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sv	And, the idea of ever owning anything that has four thousand square feet in it, for less than two hundred twenty thousand dollars, which is probably about what their equity is, that they got out of selling their house.

b	Yeah.	sd	Because those things are selling like hot cakes.

ba	I can't ,	sd	and he was talking about how you keep up with the utilities here.

sv	He has no insulation, probably.	sd	it's because there's no insulation in those things.

ba	my.	b	Yeah.

bh	What a trap.	sd	they show very well un , they show very well unless you have, you know, lived in a lot of houses around the area, or looked at a lot of houses around here.

b	Yeah.	sv	And I think that makes a big difference.

sd	I do too.	sv	I think if we had to sell now, we could come close to breaking even .

"	and you have to stop everything to run to the phone.	ny	Yes,

sd	and invariably just about the time, I'm going to sleep, the phone tears off the wall.	b	Uh huh,

sd	as soon as you say hello, you hear the click of the recording coming on,	b	Uh huh.

sd	or you hear somebody all ready starting, reading off a list of stuff that they've read probably a thousand times that day already.	aa	That's true,

sd	and you've got to say hello twice before they'll do anything.	b	Uh huh,

sd	What I would love to see done to stop all of this,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you can have your phone number unlisted,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but if they're going to offer these services, or these recorded message, everything, they ought to be stuck working with the phone book like everybody else instead of using a computer to go through and just go down every sequence of numbers for this certain area code and call them.	b	Uh huh,

sd	or I would have called for their salesman to come out.	b	Uh huh,

sd	otherwise, I don't want to know they exist.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I guess I should make another one that says religious or otherwise, cause I still get,	aa	Yeah,

sd	it would be harassment.	ba	gosh.

sv	But, I consider an invasion of my privacy, a harassment in itself.	b	Yeah,

sv	I believe we've pretty much summed everything up.	aa	I know,

^h	I'm drawing a blank.	fe	goodness,

na^t	pretty close to it.	b^m	Pretty close.

fc	Well I've enjoyed talking with you.	fc	Well it was nice talking to you too Jim.

fc	And take it easy now.	fc	Okay,

sd	but the humidity has hung around all of June.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	I grew up in Michigan,	bk	okay.

sd	but, you know, I know the summers get hot	b	Uh huh.

sd	this humidity has just really hung on there.	aa	Yeah.

aa	Yes.	sv	Normally we don't have too much, humidity or, rainy time when it's past June.

sd	You get those great big cracks in the ground where it's been so dry	b	Right.

sd	I can remember the first year I moved here	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was just wonderful.	b	Well, yeah,

b	yeah.	sv	and, you know, so many times when you were trying to schedule outdoor activities, you just never knew if it was going to be a go or not because of the weather.

aa^r	that's right.	sd	You know, and here it was like, pretty much you could schedule some activity outside anytime

b	Yeah.	sv	You could pretty much do whatever you wanted to do.

aa	That's right.	qw	What part of Michigan were you living in?

sd	I grew up in Dearborn which is a suburb of Detroit.	bk	Okay.

sv	You probably know where that is because I know where Pontiac is,	qw	What brought you down here?

sd	a teaching job.	qy	So you teach in Plano schools?

sd	So, I'm home with two children,	b	Oh.

sd	New career. New career	bk	Okay.

sd	and, that's how it worked out.	b	Well, yeah,

b	yeah.	sd	You know, the little joke about, will the last person leaving Michigan just turn out the light .

sv	I mean it's a nice, that's a nice place, though.	sd	Well, you know, I said I lived in, the Pontiac.

h	sort of.	sd	I lived in an apartment complex on one of the lakes.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, like maybe a mile, two long.

sd	Yeah.	sv	That's enough to, do some boating

aa	That's right.	sd	and it was lots of fun.

sd	but that's the only one I probably could name after all these years	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	We had, Pine Knob you know, to go skiing and stuff.

b	Right.	sd	So there were things around there.

qy	and isn't that where they have a summer music festival there, too?	na	Right,

sd	we didn't do a lot of it,	b	Yeah,

sd	And Alpine, was it Alpine was another ski slope that we went to,	b	Uh huh.

sd	my dad would kind of bank up the snow in the backyard and turn the hose on, you know, make a pond in the backyard for us.	b	yeah,

sd	and, you know, it would melt or whatever and get pretty uneven	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, because they were from Alabama where it never snowed

b	Oh.	sd	and they just had a grand time watching the snow and getting out there and playing in it, you know, eternally.

sv	If only it would make nice snow here in Texas, we'd be okay at Christmas time.	sd	My first winter here,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I remember getting up and somebody telling me, hey, better wait to go to work because the roads are all, you know, snow .

b	Yeah.	sd	it just melted it all away.

aa	I know.	sv	Course, when we get an ice storm, that's not too much fun.

sd	I mean they just go down the ice.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think we must be the only people on the block that make use of that cold weather and get out there.	aa	yeah.

sv	and especially in this election year, I think that, there ought to be at least some conversation about what we are supposed to do about this.	b	Uh huh.

sv	 especially what, for instance, George Bush is offering.	b	Yeah.

sv	that's really not going to do a lot of good, it doesn't seem to me, to your average middle income person, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	hell you can buy a coke or something for that.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	b	yeah

sd	That ninety seven cents really isn't going to do it for me either.	b	Huh uh.

sv	especially the Democratic candidates don't seem to be coming up with much that really sparks my interest as far as yeah, maybe that could do something to affect our budget at this point.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I believe it was Dukakis	aa	It was Dukakis,

^q	I will not	b	Yeah.

^q@	read my lips, or whatever * slash error and then, you know, ten months later he said, well, sorry, you know, I, I can't follow through on this. / * sd(^q	b	Uh huh.

sv	and we're supposed to be getting a peace dividend of, you know of X number of billion, trillion dollars a year.	b	Uh huh.

sv	because, in my opinion, I don't think I'm ever going to see any of this so called peace dividend.	aa	yeah.

sv	I'm not really in favor of large government social programs, either, because I feel that they waste money, also,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but with this peace dividend, it seems like you could set up some kind of like public works projects like they had in the thirties, or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

aa	ex , Exactly	sv	it wou , it would help unemployment greatly.

sv	and in that way we could really focus on building the infra structure of the country.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and I surely don't hear anybody saying that right now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So am I.	b	really,

sd	I U.	bk	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I had you know, the required political science class a couple of years ago.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And one of the things we discussed was, you know, where the budget situate , how the budget situation just got so out of hand.

b	Right.	sd	I think it was like in the, tax year of eighty one,

b	Right.	sd	and Congress, realizing that they were going to lose a, the Democratic Congress realized that they were going to lose a propaganda war, you know, you know, bye bye removing the tax cut further cut the taxes and that, that, you know, created the huge deficit that year which moved us into the trillion dollar deficit.

sv	you just have to wonder what they're thinking in Washington.	sv	I mean, it's just like they're playing chicken with a loaded gun.

sd	I mean they've got trillions of dollars to spend every year,	b	Yeah.

sv	and they, in my opinion, don't do a very responsible job of spending that money.	b	Uh huh.

ba@	no. * slash error Uh huh. / * b	sv	I mean, it's kind of like Rome and the bread and circuses thing, you know where people just want to have, you know, whatever will make them feel good, right now, you know.

sd(^q)	and that's what really is getting me about what George Bush's stand on the budget is right now is that he is saying, I am going to give you this ludicrous little tax cut so that you'll be happy come November, and you'll elect me again	b	Uh huh.

^q	and then I'm going to go on and just forget everything that I said	b	Uh huh.

sv	or you know, it doesn't seem that it's going to make much of a difference.	b	Uh huh.

aa	not at all.	sv	I just don't think it was a well thought out incentive.

fp	and I'm calling from Plano, Texas.	fp	I'm Jay in Dallas.

sd	so they keep me pretty busy.	bf	That keeps you plenty of exercise .

t3	And yourself.	sd	I walked and run almost every morning.

sd	Well, my husband swims every day at lunch, which he loves doing	ba	that would,

sd	but then maybe he'll catch up on the weekend and go for a run.	ba	All right.

sv	so we need to keep exercising just to be able to,	b	Yeah.

aa	I know.	sv	I think you feel better, too, if you get on some program like that,

sd	And it's kind of another day out for her to, have little friends,	b	Uh huh.

sd	getting to see the same women every morning,	b	Right.

sd(^q)	but there are some parts during that exercise that I think, I cannot do another second of this.	b	Oh.

aa	It is.	sv	and, especially when somebody's, planning lunch for you and they know what's good for you,

o	Okay, well.	fc	thank you for calling.

fc	thank you for participating.	fc	All right.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qo	What have you seen?	sd	The latest movie I've seen that I thought was fantastic was DANCES WITH WOLVES.

sd	I want to go see that.	ba	man.

ba	Gosh.	sd	So I finally just went to see it.

sd	I was hoping he was going to get Best Actor.	b	Yeah.

sv	but he, he did pretty good on that one.	sv	the buffalo scene in that thing was so real.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean it just blew me away.

sd	 DANCES. SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.	b	Yeah.

ar	Nay.	sd	It's supposed to be good though.

sd	That's what people said,	sd	I know some friends who went to see it.

b	Yeah.	sd	They said it was really riveting.

sd	we laughed about it .	sv	Well, you're not a thirteen year old.

sd	well I, I guess it was because I'd read the book before I saw the movie.	b	uh huh.

sd	And the book, to me, was far more frightening than the movie was.	b	really.

sv	and he had a way of putting you in that scene, you know.	ba	boy.

sd	You start hearing noises you know.	ba	Gosh.

sd	And there's rats in the attic, you know.	ba	gosh.

sd	and I can't remember,	sd	I saw one I thought was crummy.

sd	I didn't, I didn't even like the previews on that.	aa	I know.

sd	I don't much care for Michael J Fox anyway.	b	Yeah.

sd	I hardly ever go see a sequel.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, I think the only I've ever seen a sequel was TWO THOUSAND AND ONE.	ba	boy.

sv	TWO THOUSAND AND TEN was far better.	b	Yeah.

sv	TWO THOUSAND AND ONE was a good movie if you had read the book.	sd	Well, I hadn't read it

sv	I mean the book was so much,	b	Yeah.

sv	You can't put it in pictures.	b	Yeah.

qh	You know, what's the significance of the apes, you know .	b	Yeah,

sd	and that's one of them.	ba	Wow.

sv	it's so well written.	sd	Well, I have one I bet you haven't seen if you don't have kids. OTIS AND MILO.

sd	I haven't .	sd	that is the most precious movie.

qy	a real dog and cat?	sd	and all the other animals.

sd	sounds sort of like the incredible journey.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But there's you know, nothing else to keep it going.

sv	Sounds a lot a like a Walt Disney film.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I mean, I, I was raised on Walt Disney films. You know.	b	Yeah.

sd	OLD YELLER. BIG RED.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was so good that I had forgotten that it was Christmas Eve.	ba	boy.

sv	I mean that's something for a kid.	ba	That's pretty good.

sd	And that was something for greedy old me at Christmas time, I'll tell you.	^h	Let's see.

nn	No .	sd	That is a riot.

bh	Is it?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I didn't much care for the first one.	nd	No,

co	Well, I'll have to go get that one I guess.	sv	It's hard to find movies that aren't terrible violent or terribly bunch of sex going on anymore.

sd	Number nine, number ten, number fourteen.	b	Yeah.

aa^r	Yeah, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I I haven't seen a one.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I can't stand Stallone.	aa	Yeah.

sd	And I was afraid that RAMBO was going to do the same thing that ROCKY was going to do, you know. Go into fourteen hundred episodes.	b	Yeah.

sd	If I ever get the hankering to see something, I've got, I don't know, maybe about thirty or forty movies	aa	Yeah.

sd	I don't even rent them. You know.	bh	You don't?

sd	Cause I just watch them over and over again.	sd	my husband does that.

b	Yeah.	sd	there's very few I would want to see that many times.

sd	my very favorite one that the top of the tick for me is, EXCALIBUR.	aa	yeah.

sv	it's just so well done.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I lived over in England for four years,	ba	boy.

sd	That was the first place I ever saw it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it was so good.	ba	gosh.

sd	And they got pretty scenery in Ireland.	b	Yeah,

sd	it's nice.	ba	Gosh.

sd	And I've been down to the south of England where supposedly King Arthur's castle was.	ba	boy.

sd	I mean, the whole thing was about the size of a medium house .	ba	really .

b	yeah.	sd	and it was like you couldn't stand up inside of it

b	Yeah.	sd	The ceilings were so short.

sv	There's some nice stuff over there to see.	b	Yeah.

sd	I spent four years traveling around and didn't see, you know, hardly anything.	ba	boy.

sd	I need, to go over there and stay about twenty years so I can just travel. Go around all the places.	b	Yeah.

sv	everybody makes the obligatory trip to Stonehenge.	b	Yeah,

sv	It's boring.	qy	Did you see any movies over there ?

sd	come to think of it, I don't think I went to the movies one time.	b	Yeah.

sd	where I lived. it was a little town called Newmarket. About seventy miles north of London.	ba	boy .

sd	And there was another town called Barry Saint Edmunds about twenty miles away from us.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we use to go out to that about once a week.	ba	boy.

sd	You know, amateurs but really quite good.	b	Yeah.

sd	Course go to London quite a lot and see shows down there.	ba	That sounds great.

sd	but other than that I just didn't have time to go to the movies, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I rented a lot of videos .	b	Uh huh

sv	and who wants who wants to drive twenty miles to go to the movies .	ba	boy.

sd	a lot of people did.	b	Yeah.

sd	But it would have to be a good show.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	Because sometimes the reviews you just can't go by.

sv	they, they have all these neat phrases. You know, you know, you know. Like critically acclaimed.	b	Yeah.

sv	That's what they when the thing hasn't won any award. / * listen	ba	I see .

sv	from Love Canal .	sv	Water view .

sv	Waterfront property here at Love Canal, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, there's a lot of reasons why I don't go to movies.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, you know, you can't live in Dallas without, you know,	qo	Well what are the others?

sd	see I have a tendency to, adopt teams when I go to a tea , go to a town.	ba	Well it's helpful.

sd	so I mean, you know, I've got quite a few.	qy	Well do you keep up with the statistical stuff?

sd	but I don't get into, you know, how many errors somebody has or things like that.	sd	Well there's a guy that was on show that I listen to going to work in the morning who does,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's essentially trivial statistics

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's a statistic that has to do with winning and losing one run games.

ba	I've heard of that one.	sd	And apparently the Rangers last year, won a lot of one run games.

ba	that's supposed to be a real good statistic,	aa	Well, it, it is

sv	they don't have the offense to get out, or to have the more runs,	qw	gee, how can you draw a conclusion from it,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, strangely enough, it's almost like the law of averages catches you on the following year.

aap	Which I was kind of leaning toward anyway, to tell you the truth.	h	I don't know,

sd	plus supposedly what I heard, he was not much of a team player anyway,	sv	Well it's an interesting concept, though, when you look at, of how apparently,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he could go in the team the next day,

aa	well that's true.	sv	and all he has to do is hit the ball,

b	Right.	sv	It's an interesting concept of how they do it.

sd	Now having somebody get up and hit a solo home run you know, gives you run, obviously.	aa	Yes.

sv	you've got to be able to get the two and three run home runs, you know, to be able to, score enough runs to be able to win in this day and age,	b	Yeah,

sv	you know, so he's very much due for a good year.	qy	Well are they going to beat Oakland?

sd	They could very easily, take that as a challenge. Which is the way most teams you know, naturally do. and, just go out and not give anybody a chance to beat them,	b	Yeah.

sv	baseball is there life up there like football is down here I think.	qy	did you actually live in Saint Louis?

ny	yeah.	qy^g	everybody does, right.

sv	I think that's all that they have.	sd	I had a friend from college that lives in,

b	Uh huh.	sd	out that way,

sd	and they're like one of the best teams in spring training so far.	qy	Well is that a good indicator?

sd	so, you know, it's not a great indication because there have been teams that have just, you know, come out and just won all kinds of games in Spring training and then gone on a, you know, fourteen game losing streak in the first of the season	sv	it seems that what you really need to do to win though, is to have a team that has reasonable talent and has some people that have, have real breakthrough years.

aa	yeah.	sv	and the question is how do you forecast that,

sv	You can't.	sv	if you had to bet on who would be in the World Series, I mean it would be really tough.

sv	I think the best thing that you can do is go with, the players that have the talent to do the best years. And, that they hadn't had these, gigantic, career years yet and, and just kind of assume that, you know, one of them is going to break through eventually,	b	Yeah.

sv	this last year, I'm not sure that they said that they had that many people having career years.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, and so they may be even better this year.	qw	well when are the Rangers going to come through th ,

sv	They're letting their farm system, build up and stuff like that	sd	Well is there enough money,

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	I don't know if you read Skip Bayless, a local commentary

nn	No.	sd	and, his argument is that the ownership is not inclined to lose big money long enough to bring in the big dollars.

aap	that's probably true.	qy	would you agree with that?

sv	Don't let him go away.	b	Yeah.

sv	And I think that's really what's been hurting, the, Rangers.	qy	Well didn't Kansas City put up quite a bit of money for their pitching staff .

sv	so it's like I said spending money doesn't guarantee you, winning a pennant.	b	Yeah.

sv	It really doesn't,	sv	Well and I think that's maybe part of it that the,

sv	and once you do that, you lose everything,	sv	Well it, it, yeah, it's a little bit like any other sport, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	if you, if you compare to go to a sport, a

b	Uh huh.	qh	but how often do you do that.

b	Right.	sv	I, I would, I would think baseball probably feeds on a number of people that can go out there, you know, several times a,

sd	There are so many games in a year that they've got to have repeat customers.	b	Yeah.

sd	and yet they attract as many if not more than most, other cities,	b	Yeah,

qy	Well, do you exercise regularly?	no	well, I am a school teacher.

b	Uh huh.	sd	there is, girl that went through our school district, I teach in Highland Park who, does aerobics at the Y C A and I say Y, the Y W C A

b	Uh huh.	t3	turn that off please,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Any way, she comes to the school

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we do it twice a week.

ba	Oh. That is good.	sd	And, we do, aerobics, for our cardiovascular fitness for thirty minutes

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it is an hour.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, not on the nights that I do aerobics,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so, we, take it seriously.

sd	I use to also take an aerobics class about three days a week before work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, I guess my job change, my husband's job change and it is just not easy to get up early in the morning any more.	ba	I understand that.

sd	I just want to go home and not do anything.	sd	Well, and too. I just make myself.

b	Yeah.	sd	I get up at five thirty

b	Oh.	sd	School is not over until, four

b	Uh huh.	sd	and our class,

b	Oh.	sd	that is the big difference

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I just go

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I have done that before, but it has always had to be late at night after I have got home and after dinner

b	Yeah.	sv	and you are just kind of going Ugh.

sv	That is a .	aa	It is.

sd	but, you know by the time I get over the gym and go for my class and shower and get back to work, it is probably two hours or more	b	Uh huh.

sv	and that is just too long.	sd	I have twenty five minutes for lunch.

b	Yeah .	sd	That is out for me.

qh	That doesn't really do it, does it?	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	and they are nice because if we are running late, it usually,

b	Yeah.	sv	and, it does going to start whether you are there or not .

aa^r	That is right.	sd	So this has worked out real nicely.

ba	Well, that is not much.	aa	Huh uh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so it is like twenty four dollars every six weeks.

ba	That is not bad.	aa	Huh uh.

ba	That is for sure.	ba	You are not kidding.

sv	They are real expensive.	aa	I know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, we were paying a hundred dollars plus month for our family membership

b	Oh.	sd	and at first we used it

b	Yeah.	sd	And they offered lots of things,

b	Yeah.	sd	So we decided to forget that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	That was just a waste of our our money.

sd@	and its probably about a hundred and fifty dollars a year. Which is bad. / * 2 utts	ba	no.

sd	if its only walk the dog or something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I need to start doing that.	sv	It does make you feel better.

aa	That is right.	sv	And if you have somebody who will do it with you,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but he decided that, maybe, you know,

sv	I think it's, refreshing to see the support that the President got from the American people.	b	Yeah,

aa	Right.	sv	And this time President Bush did it through action

aa	Yes.	sv	or, I mean, he left almost no alternative.

aa	That's right .	sv	and it was very interesting how he did it

b	Really.	sv	I mean I think it's great that all the support.

b	Right.	sd	this is a B fifty two base where I work,

b	Yeah.	sd	and they're getting a tremendous amount of support out of it.

sd	if you remember, the vote in the Congress to authorize war, if necessary, was actually pretty close.	aa	Yes

sv	And if my memory serves me right, I believe a majority of Democrats may even have opposed it,	b	Yeah,

aa	That's right.	sv	gosh this whole thing now with all the political cartoons on the Democrats and how they're, they're in a sad way for ninety two now in terms of the presidential election, anyway.

sv(^q)	Especially the ones that came out and said, oh come on guys, let's talk about this little while longer.	aa	Yeah,

qh	and what do you do with the people that are over there in the mean time.	aa	Right,

aa	No doubt.	sv	everyone was discussing whether we should, wait longer,

aa	I think so too.	sv	and, we were worried that they were getting dug in

sv	Well they were, and in fact they were so well dug in that, when we sent our tanks around behind them they couldn't get turned around in time.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, had we done a frontal assault it probably would have worked more to his favor.	aa	That's right,

ba	interesting.	sv	and not the Israelis but the Arabs all of a sudden are cheering for Baker on his drive to reconcile relations with the Israelis,

sv	Well, Baker is really not very much pro Israel.	b	Yeah

qy	And did you know John Sununu is, half Arab?	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	because I used to live in, Massachusetts,

sv	in fact, when he was Governor of New Hampshire, I believe.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I believe he was the only one of fifty governors that voted against some kind of resolution of support for Israel a few years back.	ba	my gosh.

sd	and that concerns me greatly.	sv	I'd certainly, support Israel in their policy in defending themselves and in their handling of their foreign policy,

sv	they could either fight or die.	aa	Yeah,

sv(^q)	however, every time an organization such as the P L O says well we'll see if we can work with Israel, then, they get embarrassed every few months by documents that reveal that their ultimate purpose is to totally eliminate them.	aa	Right.

sv	and I'm just not sure that there's going to be any easy permanent solution.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Exactly.	b	I,

aa	It is.	sd	I'm, I'm looking forward to seeing what happens over there in the next couple of months,

sd	I commend Israel for their restraint in not responding to the Scud attacks.	aa	Yeah,

aa	exactly.	sd	And I mean that's never happened before,

aa	No.	sv	and I don't know if it will ever happen again

fc	Well it's been fun, I enjoyed talking with you.	fc	Yeah,

fc	You never know.	fc	All right.

fc	Bye, bye.	fc	Bye, bye.

sd	we're energized.	b	Okay.

sd	painting is not hard to do, as long as it's not to the point of where it needs to be scraped and peeling,	aa	No.

sd	so I'm looking for the easy way out.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but you have to be aware of how messy they can get and are they going to put on a good two coats, and are they, going to caulk,	qr	are you talking, outside or inside?

sd	Exterior.	b^m	Exterior,

sv	interior's not so bad because it's more fun,	b	Yeah.

sd	outside you have high peeks, and those kind of things,	b	Yeah.

sv	it can be a real issue.	sd	Well, when we've painted,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so there isn't as much wood that has to be painted.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you've got to prepare it well

sd	And, I've had thirteen hundred dollar bid and as low as five hundred and forty dollars	ba	Wow. that's quite a range.

sd	and I'm so much worried about that as what, I don't want it all over the brick and windows	b	Yeah.

ba	sure.	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	So y'all, you haven't had any jobs painted in your house recently .	nn	No,

ba	That's fun.	sd	and we have some more that need to be done,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but the problem that we've owned this house almost five years now,

b	Uh huh.	sd	when we took the masking tape off half the painted came with it.

ba	that's not very,	sd	Big long strips.

bf	they just painted over varnished wood.	aa	Yeah,

ba	my,	ar	well, no

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, it had not,

b	Sure.	sd	it comes off in strips, I mean not even little bit.

ba	no.	sd	we know what a job it's going to be

fc	I wish you good luck.	fc	Okay .

fc	Thank you very much.	fc	Thank you.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qy	Cindy, have you seen DANCES WITH WOLVES?	nn	No,

na	that is a wonderful movie.	b	Uh huh,

nn	No.	b	Uh huh.

bh	Really.	ny	Uh huh,

sd	I thought it was great.	bh	Really.

ny	Yeah.	sd	Now, I've seen, you know, some different clips of it,

sd	and I heard a story about there's a certain scene in the movie where they're, they're on a buffalo hunt.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they have a particular child actor, who's being supposedly run down by a buffalo.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And when they were trying to film that, the buffalo that they used for that scene was Neil Young's buffalo.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But he has a fetish for Oreo cookies.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And he got him to run like he was running down the kid by luring him with oreo cookies .	ba	Hey,

sd	I thought that was really funny.	b	Uh huh,

bk	yeah.	sd	I saw the one clip of him

bk	yeah.	sv	That was rather, gross .

sd	the wagon driver.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And, the costuming * slash error yeah, was, / * slash error	b	Uh huh,

sd	the only thing about the costuming my husband remarked that, that, the Indians all appeared to be wearing new things.	b	really.

sv	And they should have taken them out and rolled them in the dirt a little more probably to age the material	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, they did very authentic reproductions of the, of the actual stuff,	^2	The styles,

sv	but they didn't age it quite enough it seemed.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But it was a very good movie.	b	Uh huh.

qw	What have you seen lately?	sd	actually have been to the movies,

sd	I didn't see that.	sd	very suspenseful.

sd	I don't like Stephen King.	aa	I really don't either,

bh	Really.	ny	Yeah.

sv	because, just generally, you know, that kind of scary stuff I just don't want to have anything to do with it.	sd	it's not necessarily scary as it is suspenseful.

sv	I think I heard somebody talking about that she cuts his foot off or something, you know.	ar	No,

ba	Ugh.	sd	And that I couldn't watch,

b	Yeah.	sd	that was so that he couldn't leave her,

sv	It still just seems a little twisted to me .	aa	Yeah,

sv	I'm not sure I would have enjoyed that at all.	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, and, and she feel madly in love with this writer.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but she was a killer,

b	Yeah.	sd	but no one knew that.

ba	yeah.	sd	we just haven't had the time to go to the movies lately,

sd	we don't see movies at the movies a lot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we rent them .	aa	Right,

sv	that looks really good too.	sv	that looks good.

sd	but I'm not sure I want to go see it yet .	b	Yeah,

sd	and they said it was okay.	b	Really.

sd	I think they may be playing up some aspects of the movie that aren't the main aspects.	b	Really.

sd	Now, we went to see the JAGGED EDGE.	sd	I liked that movie.

bh	Yeah.	ny	Yeah.

sv	So, it seems like, you know, that kind of thriller suspense and not real, strange in other ways.	b	Uh huh.

fc	Maybe we'll talk to you again.	fc	Okay,

fc	Alright.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	Well, I am basically retired now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I was in education and in administration,	b	Uh huh.

sd@	so basically I wore dresses. * slash... And, heels,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I because my work often took me into court, never was one that got, accustomed to wearing pants suits and pants to work.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess I was just old enough not to, be very comfortable in it.	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about you?	sd	Well, I work at T I

b	Uh huh.	sd	and when it's raining, I'm more likely to wear jeans

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it just really depends on the weather and my mood

sv	because when you do have to be in front of people, I think the tendency there is to wear dresses and suits and, more classical style of clothing.	b	Uh huh.

qw	What about the mini skirt?	sd	There are a few people every now and then that wear those to work.

b	Uh huh.	sd	for me I just, wouldn't want to do that.

sv	Well there are mini skirts and there are mini skirts.	b	Yeah.

sv	and then there are some that may be will come like four inches or five inches above the knee.	b	Uh huh,

sv	and again it depends upon the size, the shape of the person, as well as the shape of the person's legs.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I teach at a modeling agency here.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, when we are doing wardrobing and we have, two hour classes in wardrobe, we do discuss a great deal, the mini skirt and the types of clothes to wear on the job.	b	Uh huh.

sd	even though I may have them from sixth grade on up through, grandmothers, in my class.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I always try to emphasize the, clothes that you wear should not necessarily be the greatest fad,	b	Uh huh.

sv	because maybe those are not the clothes that are the most, appealing to you, or the most, complimentary to you.	aa	Right.

sv	But, the mini skirt many times will evoke comments you don't really want.	b	Right .

sv	and then you're in the situation where you're very unhappy.	 b	Uh huh.

aa	That's right.	sd	And, to me I just wouldn't feel comfortable in that at work,

sd	Well, I, I have to, agree with that, even when they was very, very popular in the early sixties,	b	Uh huh.

sd	again maybe because I was at the school, there were still many teachers who wore mini skirts,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it could be very embarrassing for the men teachers.	b	Right .

sd	Because they were not that careful in how they handled themselves in those mini skirts.	b	Right.

sv	And so, I think, of course, now I go the other extreme, I do not like to see, in the corporate areas, all the women dressed like men, with the suits and, white shirts and ties and what have you so that they all look exactly the same.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think there should be individuality in dressing.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Yes.	sv	you don't want to over do it but, just a little, a touch of it just to say, yes, I am a woman,

aa	Right.	sd	but I can be professional too.

sv	and I don't think that you have to be manish and extremely tailored to look professional.	aa	Right,

sv	and you can go the opposite direction and, over do all the frills and laces and flounces and what have you, which don't belong in, at least in my opinion, in the work place,	b	Right.

sv	you can have a classical look without a great deal of adornment and what have you and still be very feminine.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I started out as a physical education teacher.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So I was always fighting against the idea of looking tailored or manish,	b	Right.

sd	and that pleased me,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but when I go out somewhere, then, unless I have a pair of dress slacks, I don't usually wear a lot of blue jeans.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have difficulty getting them to fit me comfortably any how.	b	Uh huh .

sv	And, so, I just feel that, you know each person has to dress to their own liking and for their own comfort.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, there are certain norms that companies should be able to, put out as guidelines for their employees.	aa	Right,

b	Yes.	sd	The only real restrictions they have are, no halter tops and no shorts, even the long walking short of the squirts, the split skirts, anything that could be considered shorts they don't allow.

ba	That's good.	sd	And they don't allow, any sweat shirts or t shirts that might have vulgar, or, you know, anything like that on it,

b	uh huh.	sv	and I think that's good because it does allow people to be individual

b	Yes.	sv	Or, you know, if you want to be comfortable and casual you can,

b	Right.	sv	and, you know, like when I'm writing training material, I prefer to be more comfortable unless I know I have to meet with a customer later during the day.

b^r	right.	sv	So, I think, that is good that they're like that.

b	Yeah.	sv	and I don't quite agree with that.

sd	Fortunately I don't have to work in those companies .	aa	Right.

sd@	I mean you could hardly tell the women from the men except for the lengths of the pants. * need slash And one was a skirt and one was a pant. / * sd	b	right.

sv	and I think that's sad because that doesn't allow for any individuality.	b	Uh huh.

sv	That can stifle creativity.	aa	Right,

fc	well it's been nice talking with you.	fc	Nice talking to you too,

fc	bye, bye.	fc	Bye, bye.

qy^t	is that it?	na^t	That's it.

sd^t	well, I guess we have to talk about magazines	qr	what kind do you subscribe to or do you?

sd	And now I, subscribe to, LADIES HOME JOURNAL.	sd	I, take a computer magazine. And, also, BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS.

qy	are you interested in computers?	sd	And my pet peeve with magazines is all the little cards inside. And the cardboard pages .

sd	You know, if I want something intellectual, I usually read a book.	aa	Well, that's true.

aa	they did.	sd	And I haven't bought a REDBOOK in a while ,

b	Yeah.	sd	I really very rarely ever pick up a magazine anymore .

sd	I don't know if they're around anymore.	ny	Yeah .

sd	it was Publisher's Clearinghouse ,	b	Right .

sd	They told me, you know, if I didn't subscribe they were going to take me off their winning, you know, their list .	aa	Mine, too .

sd	so I figured, hey, look . For twelve dollars, you know,	sd	Well, I, I went ahead and sent in my subscription because of that to, ENTERTAINMENT.

b	uh huh.	sd	And I was real disappointed with it.

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know,

b	Right.	sv	It's little short articles more than anything else.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that's one thing I don't like about PEOPLE.

sv	You know, well, you don't have to concentrate, you know you know.	aa	No,

qy	or isn't it similar to the TV GUIDE?	nn	, no,

bk	I see.	sd	And, I'm a real movie buff,

b	uh huh.	sd	And, my mother is the reason I get, the HOME JOURNAL and the, computer book is because mother got a subscription for it and sent it to me.

b	Oh.	sd	Otherwise, if I really want to take the time to read a magazine and I see one on the grocery shelf, I'll pick it up then. Rather than having them delivered and think, I really need to read this .

sd	if I read three articles in, you know, one of the JOURNALs, I figure, you know, I did really well.	b	Yeah,

sd	you know, I don't, I'm not into, you know, recipes	sd	Well, I do like recipes and crafts.

sd	so, you know, that eliminates, like three quarters of the magazine . You know.	aa	That's true.

qy^g	what does it have, it has a death penalty doesn't it?	ny	yes,

sv	But now it's coming back into favor.	aa	yes.

h	I don't know maybe if I went back and took a sociology class now they'd say it is a deterrent.	sv	Well, if you, You know, compare the figures, I think that's where they're coming from.

sd	because that was back in the seventies.	aa	yes. They are.

sd	I think they have they're working on, something in Austin now,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just remember seeing a, kind of a synopsis of it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I'm personally very in favor of it.	b	Uh huh.

qh	why should we let them set in prison and work on their college degrees after they've mowed down a class yard full of kids or tried to, or you know, given their best effort at doing that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't care to support them.	aa	Well, I don't either

aa	Sure.	sd	I'm against it.

b^r	uh huh .	sd	just recently this, black man served nine years was it, for robbery.

sd	And she was set free, too, just in two examples in Texas recently.	b	Uh huh.

qh	what if we make a mistake.	aa	That's it.

sv	And that's not one of those things that you can turn the wheel back and reverse everything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, Well, I guess, though, where I would have a problem with it if I were on the jury that, put, that handed down the death sentence because it was my judgement the person's guilty.	qh	Why should they be sitting in, prison getting their college degree.

sv	But to be the actual one of the ones that decide, that would be tougher for me.	aa	Yes,

h	but I don't know .	sd	Well, I myself wouldn't want to be on the jury like that.

sv	but, you know, that's what they did.	aa	true.

sv	Or rather than have a warped mind it was just the only way to get whatever they wanted.	b	Yeah

sv	And they wanted something more than they respect the human life.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I think our courts have too many opportunities for them to go back and get one more chance.	aa	that's true.

sd	it is.	aa	And, yes,

sd	and maybe, now, I don't remember if this is Texas or not, that has something about all drug dealers can be sentenced to the death sentence.	arp	well, n , Not just for dealing in drugs.

sd	Convicted drug dealers.	sd	There are certain circumstances,

sd	they're on the distribution end.	aa	yes.

sd	It's for the large dealers is what, it's reserved for.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they are in effect killing people.	aa	yes,

bk	okay.	sd	I think that's the way it's worded.

qr	or is it passed?	sd	I do believe that's in.

sd	I believe it is,	sd	But I thought it was in effect.

aa	And I have to agree with that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but to the best of my knowledge we haven't had a major problem yet.	b	Uh huh.

sv@	But it just touches so many young people. * slash error * slash error Well, my children are about in the same age bracket.	aa	it does.

sd	So, it's the same age bracket.	aa	Yes.

sd	And I think one of each experimented very slightly with pot,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I think that was the extent of it to the best of my knowledge.	aa	Yeah.

ba	that's tough.	aa	Yes,

sd	and he's concerned about it but, hasn't quite made it yet .	sd	Well, Well, when I was still smoking, I felt that way.

sd	I've seen all of this,	sd	but, now the shoe's on the other foot .

sd	so, when we're invited to people's house, he will not smoke in their house. Which I think is good because there's a lot of people that are very,	b	Yes.

sd	particularly if they have children.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but still , he's done everything the Smokers Anonymous tell you to do except quit smoking .	b	uh huh.

sv	It's a, long process.	sd	Well, the, there's a trick I use.

ba	how neat.	sd	And every time I wanted one I have to go outside and just take one. One at a time.

sd	and so there's probably a lot of things I remember and a lot of things that I really didn't have a clue as to what was happening.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I, I feel like it went on and on.	b	Right.

sd	And I guess I see such a contrast like as opposed to the Middle East War we just had, where President Bush went out and got worldwide support for what was happening.	b	Right.

sv	and I'm not sure that's our role,	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, my husband is a Vietnam veteran

sv	but I feel like maybe the American people and the government are aware of the things that we did wrong that we didn't support that , that those,	b	Right.

sd	and those guys were there doing their duty.	aa	That's right,

sv	It was a tragic mistake,	b	Right.

sv	and I'm not sure you can undo the damage that was done emotionally, on so many of the people.	b	Right.

aa	they're not.	sv	And I have a feeling that the Persian Gulf crisis is going to be the same way.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think we're going to end up back there in a few years if not sooner.

sd	He went over there to get them out of Kuwait, which he did.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And you see, I think him going in and doing that would be putting us in another Vietnam situation.	aa	I think it would too.

sv	I don't think he would do that,	aa	No,

sv	I think we learned too much of the effects.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I feel like maybe they felt like we were doing the right thing to try and help maintain the democracy over there and, and beat the communism,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I think somewhere that got lost. You know, in the long term effects of the war	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, my, my biggest problem with all of these wars is we spend all of that money on all these other countries

bf	That we don't get fixed.	aa	That's right.

aa	I know.	sd	and that's what frustrates me more than anything.

sv	and I believe that we have to have a defense to keep anybody else from walking in and doing it to us.	b	Right.

sv	But I also believe that we need to turn so much of that inward.	sv	I think there's a lot of waste

sv	I think that maybe a lot of the Arab countries that were so hateful towards the United States have come away with, kind of a different attitude.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that maybe we're not their big bad enemy any more.	b	Right.

sv	and I think that's good, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	I think that's a good,	aa	Yeah,

aa	I think so too.	sv	And I guess, in, ironic way a lot of good came from the Vietnam war toward this war

sv	And perhaps the reason that good came out of the Mid East war is because we had the experience of Vietnam.	aa	Right,

sv	So, I, I do think that, we've learned from it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, I, I wish there weren't war .	aa	Yeah,

sv	But, I do think we learned.	sd	And I just hate the emotional price a lot of the Vietnam people paid, for, you know, nothing.

aa	Yes.	sv	I mean, they're, they still don't know what they were there for.

aa	no,	aa	No.

qh	Who knows.	aa	Yeah,

sd	like right now, I feel like this country has been behind this war.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm not for war,	b	Right.

sd	I don't remember that feeling back in Vietnam.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	but there was no, let's support them, you know.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	sv	I felt like they got way too much media coverage and publicity

aa@	That's right. * slash error That's right.	sv	you have to support the people that are there.

aa	That's right.	sv	And for some reason those people don't see that.

sv	They don't see it as supporting the folks, the people.	aa	No,

aa	I would agree with you there .	b	Yeah.

sd	And I remember a lot of it kind of stopped after that.	b	Yeah,

aa	That's true.	sv	And I don't even know what they're doing for themselves. You know.

sd	Giving a soapbox to stand on .	b	Yeah .

sd	I'm sorry we had the experience of Vietnam.	b	Yeah.

sv	because, you know until the past four or five years, nobody ever really worried about that, for them.	aa	That's true.

sv	and I think that's where we as American people really you know, failed them.	b	Uh huh,

qy	Well, do you have anything else you want to say on this?	nn	No,

sd	but this is something to me that's sad .	aa	Yeah,

fc	and I appreciate the conversation.	fc	Thanks,

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

o	Okay.	o	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	She's actually at Bible College for this current year.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, I guess , first and foremost, really it's a question of what the student wants to have in the way of a career and then, which colleges or universities can best offer that program,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it comes down to, trying to come with a trade off of the costs.

b	Uh huh.	qo^d	what do you feel about come of the things that need to,

sv	the, the way, you know, the, the, the lifestyle pictured in the catalogs isn't always the whole story.	aa	No,

b	Uh huh.	sv	It doesn't matter whether, you know, they're selling school.

b	Uh huh.	o	and, true,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I guess there's a difference in,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, I know that there are a lot of colleges and universities, particularly as they get to be a little bit on the smaller side where dormitory life is, is right on campus as well

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you know, that changes the character of it quite a bit.

sd	I go to Georgia Tech which is, you know, primarily an engineering school	b	Uh huh.

sv	and there doesn't seem to be the diversity of views that a lot of, you know, universities will have.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	in competitions

b	Uh huh.	sv	whether you've got a spirit of innovation and excellence or whether you've got a spirit of, somewhat unkind, but producing graduates.

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, as sort of some development and some training,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and that can vary between colleges, and faculties even, as to you know, what the attitude towards achievement is.

b	Uh huh.	qy	do you, have anyone that you're seriously needing to, feed information to?

sd	actually I'm, I'm more interested in, in choosing the right job when you graduate type information .	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	going to university is going to take four to eight years depending on the pa , programs person's involved in

^2	Program.	sv	and after that, you have to be out in the real world and have to be able to support yourself

b	Uh huh.	sv	and if you go in an area that there is just not much of a job market

b	Uh uh.	fe	jeez,

^2	like a fine arts education,	aa	Right.

sv	and, it those who don't vote would have voted exactly the same way, you know, in other words if forty percent had voted for that person and sixty percent for the other, just like everyone who did vote, it's not clear to me that it is really a problem,	ba	that's interesting,

sd	In fact I've heard of studies that suggest that that isn't.	sv	Apparently they don't think it's a problem .

sd	and, wish I could vote on more things frankly.	aa	That's right,

sd	I mean, we have these state initiatives now.	b	Oh.

sd	The first really you know wide spread one was, Proposition Thirteen which was a, tax revolt, against property taxes.	bk	Right,

sv	you know, that's, that's why we hire people you know, to make these decisions for us.	sv	I kind of feel the opposite, though.

b	Yeah.	sd	I wish we were given an opportunity to vote on more things.

aa	I do t ,	sv	I think our elected officials say they are speaking for us

sd	I wouldn't mind having, more votes than I get to have, frankly .	aa	That's true.

sd	it is in Australia, for example.	br	Is that true?

aa^r	yeah.	sd	I didn't know that,

sd	I don't know how I feel about that.	sv	that's not really democratic. Not what I'd consider truly democratic.

sd	Well Australia considers itself every bit as much a democracy as the United States.	b	uh huh.

h	And it's not for me to say that they're not.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we have the duty to pay taxes.	aa	It's a duty, right.

h	 I don't know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but part of me rebels against that,	qy^g	it's, that's, it's complex question when you start thinking about it, isn't it .

sd	but you're eligible for some sort of fine if you don't vote.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think they feel they can criticize if they don't .

b	Yeah,	sd	I told them if they don't vote they don't have the right to criticize.

sv	but if you don't vote, part of me, and it's kind of a nasty part of me feels like, well if you didn't vote, you get what's coming to you, you know.	aa	That's right,

sv	And, you know, I say well, you know, voting for the lesser of two evils is still important.	aa	I think it is too.

sv	But of course that's not really a vote.	sv	It doesn't really gain anything.

sd	I mean, not because of the vo , I mean I'm not thinking of moving there because of the voting, but just because of a job opportunity.	bk	I see.

sd^e	I'm not.	b^m	Not,

sd	and part of me likes the idea of having it be more of a duty,	sv	Well, maybe they should,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	and perhaps they would be indoctrinated that this is their duty.

h	I don't know.	sv	Maybe it should go with a drivers license .

sv	that's considered a privilege, not a right.	sv	That is a privilege,

sv	But actually it's a privilege, which is allowed to be revoked.	aa	It is.

sv	And, fortunately voting isn't that.	sv	maybe it should be.

sd	if you're a felon it is taken away from you.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, they will take away your right to vote, under certain circumstances.	aa	That's right.

sv^t	so we don't have a great solution yet do we ,	b^m	Don't have a great

qy^d	But I also, I also, I don't know if you've, read any of what do they call those. The, the early republic documents, when they were arguing through constitutional law written by Hamilton and all those people.	nn	No,

sd	I think it was Hamilton who wrote number ten or something, where he was arguing for a republican, not in the sense of the Republican party now, versus a democratic, government and, arguing successfully, why, the United States should be a republic, not a democracy. Which indeed it really is, a republic, not a democracy.	b	Right.

sd	In other words, you vote for representatives.	b	Uh huh.

sd	if there's some minority that people don't like because of, you know, racial hatred or something like that, the majority can just simply vote against them.	b	Right.

sd	and actually I agree, except that I don't trust the people who are appointed to vote .	sv	Sometimes I think we have that right now, with Congress.

sd	well, I mean, I feel that wa ,	sv	I think they're looking after their own self preservation more than they're actually looking after the good of the country.

sv	that kind of thing.	b	Right.

o	All right.	sd	Well, like I told you before, .

b	Uh huh.	sd	We put ours up.

sv	I wish I had.	sv	Well, you should try it.

sd	and it started falling.	b	Yeah.

sd	and finally, boom .	qy	You lost your business?

ny	Yep.	ba	gol.

sd	And, so, there I was in old bankruptcy court.	qy	Well, you weren't charging gold and silver were you?

ny	yeah.	qy	you can?

sd	and, you know, they take payment any way they can get it.	ba	that's a nightmare .

sd	but it was things like, you know, rent and phone bills and advertising and all that other good stuff that ate them all up.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	of course you fill them all out because you're honored.

b	Sure.	sd	And, I had stuff for like Sanger Harris,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	I wasn't thinking a thing about it.

sv	That's the way they suck you in.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Because, you know, get such good bargains.

b	Uh huh.	h	And I don't know.

sd	Well, just today in the mail I got, got my guaranteed acceptance by, American Express.	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I went back to school and got my Master's,

sv	as soon as you're a graduate student they get your name.	b	Yeah,

sd	back when I had my business I got one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	because I was using the American Express strictly for the travel expenses.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	So I made a copy of the check that they had cashed attached it to their letter, and sent them a nasty letter with the card cut in little bitty pieces, saying Thanks, but no thanks .	bf	Turned out they weren't cheeky.

sd	They don't talk about they're charging that enormous fee every year.	qw	So what is it now?

ar	no	qw	What do you mean fifty five?

sd^e	for the green card.	qw	But then, what's the interest?

sd	Well, now, that's the card, see.	qy^d	And interest is like eighteen or something.

sd	it's about sixteen and a half percent, which is pretty good, as far as credit cards go.	aa	Yeah.

sv	Well, they're dangerous.	sd	You know, my parents don't hardly use them.

sd	and that's it.	sd	I've got all my gas cards, because I don't want to carry money around.

aa	Yeah.	sd	I'll do that.

sd	now I do use gas cards.	sv	Now Impact is kind of bad too, though.

b	Yeah,	sd	You know. Especially if you forget to record those little suckers.

sv	I mean that's the whole problem with it.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	Of course, you got to charge it and keep your cash.

sd	I got into all kinds of trouble doing that .	t3	What are you saying?

sd	but, I, I'm kind of, grateful for the experience because it's taught me a lot of restraint.	bf	Well, it makes you feel good when you whip out the cash instead of your plastic.

sd	I, I just went out and got a new V C R yesterday with cash.	bh^r	With cash?

sd^e	I wish I did.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I have to wait for things to go on sale .	sv	But there's always a sale.

sv	especially on electronic goods	b	Yeah.

sv	especially now.	sd	What is that thing I saw,

bc	Circuit City.	sd^m	Circuit City.

sd	but they've got to pay for all that national advertising now.	qy	it's national?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	I think I've seen two around Dallas.

sd	We call it Service Merchandise.	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	You got Service Merchandise.	ny	Uh huh.

sv	So much for Circuit City.	qo^t	what else can we talk about?

sd	I'm a professional student.	ba	Sounds wonderful.

aa	It is.	sd	We were talking about that just today.

sv	It's great.	sv	We could be just lifelong students.

sd	I love it.	qw	Where are you going to school?

sd	N C State.	qw	What's that?

sd	North Carolina State.	qy	So you're on Spring Break?

sd^e	ours doesn't start until, next week.	qw	So where are you?

br	Where am I?	ny	Yeah.

sd	in Raleigh.	bk	okay.

sd	What a dead place .	qy	Is it? .

sd	and I sit around and tinker with that most of the time.	qw	So what are you getting your degree in?

sd	human factors.	qw	And what do you do with it?

sd	Not a thing .	qw	Well, what is it?

sd	it's really looking at systems and design systems and seeing how people interact with them.	bf	So it's sociology.

sd	my master's is in industrial engineering.	qy	So you're working on your doctorate?

ny	Yeah.	ba	lord.

sd	P H D in human factors.	qy^g	that will sound wonderful, won't it?

nd	Well,	sv	Get you a little plaque.

sd	but I B M is what I'm looking at right now.	qy	aren't they laying off several thousand people?

sd	but not at the human factors level .	sd	Well, I heard it on the news today,

o@	me. * slash error I'm, I'm or going into the, dissertation this summer. / * sd	qw	How much longer do you have?

sd^e	I probably won't finish it until the end of the year	ba	Ooh. / * listen

sd	but, I'm trying to get a, intern position with I B M right now so that I can find an area to do my dissertation in.	bf	Because you,

sd	It's hard finding an area to do a dissertation in this field.	qo	Why?

qy	so do you have a personal computer?	sd	well we do have one in our home,

b	Oh .	sd	However, you know, the bane of our existence these days,

sd	and that was six years ago,	ba	wow.

sd	my sister bought it	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he never did,	b	Oh.

sd	He only had three employees,	b	yeah.

sv	so, you know, it wasn't really worth it to him to do it.	b	Yeah.

sv	like pay, the payroll	aa	Exactly,

b	Yeah.	sd	But you do have to research that, find out what works for your system .

sd	It's an, I B M P C Junior, I think.	ba	well, that's a nice computer.

sd@	and my father wasn't using it, * slash error She took it with her, * sd because she needed it to do,	b	Uh huh,

sd	she just finished up her Bachelor's degree	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I don't know if she's going to even use it anymore.	b	Yeah .

b	Yeah.	sd	but, I also am sponsoring a literary magazine,

ba	that's, a very good use.	sv	So, it is wonderful,

sv	but it's just you have, to have a need.	sv	You have to make yourself do it,

sd	I really have no need for it at all,	b	Yeah.

sd	I work for Digital Equipment	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we have a powerful computer down at work.	b	Oh

sd	and I, I still really don't do that much, as you say, play games on it ,	b	Yeah.

sv	they're great for playing games.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	if you're doing that sort of thing it's really useful,

sd	they just went through a course, and took the electronic grafting course, drafting, not grafting, but drafting course,	ba	that's, fascinating.

sd	the C A D.	sd	I knew what you meant,

sd	you can do graphs on it too,	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's actual, drafting,	b	Yeah.

sv	and the computer does it all for you.	b	Yeah.

sd	but my boss wouldn't pay for it,	ba	well .

^q	I'll be needed.	b	Yeah.

sd	because I didn't think I was really going to use it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've got a cold because it was eighty degrees up here and I went outside with no coat on.	ba	boy .

sd	it was bad.	bh	What a change, huh?

sd^e	was a big change.	b	Yeah.

sd	and then, again, I picked up a cold.	b	Right.

sd	But I'm doing all right, getting over it.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	So I don't even know how much, personal computers cost nowadays.	sd	Well, they vary tremendously.

bf	they can't do your, your drafting and your graphs, and all of that.	aa	no,

bh	Yeah?	sd	but, if, if you want to go into one that's really useful, you're going to have to go over a thousand dollars,

qy	You do run in , you do run into limitations on yours?	ny	yeah,

ba	wow.	b	uh huh,

b	Yeah.	sd	but we've been able to do what we can.

sd	I haven't even begun to reach the limits,	aa	No,

b	yeah.	b	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And it's not quite as useful, not quite as powerful.

sd	They, say that Commodore has made a good, P C for the price, though.	aa	They did,

sd	she's not going to do it, not going to use it.	bf	Sounds that you were right .

sv(^q)	but like I say, she could have bought a much cheaper model and done what she wanted.	b	Yeah.

sv	a typewriter with memory would have been fine,	b	Yeah,

sd	it's all she uses it for.	b	yeah.

sd	I'm not sure.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah,

sv	that's the one great thing about it .	b	Right.

sd	it was six years ago.	bk	yeah.

sd	and all you have to do is just put it in the spelling check mode,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I don't even have to look my words up anymore.	aa	Yeah,

fc	Oh,	fc	I need to go help my daughter do something,

fc	Okay.	fc	Good luck.

fc	well, bye.	fc	bye bye.

qy	Okay?	na	Sure,

qw	What kind of books do you like to read?	sd	, I like all kinds of books.

b	Yeah.	sd	Mostly, something, I like like true life, , you know, documentaries or real stories about real people and that kind of stuff or dramas in real life.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I also like romantic novels.

sd	so do I.	sd	I usually read that from cover to cover.

b	Yeah.	sd	I like it because there's a little bit of everything in it.

b	Right.	o	You know, that kind of a thing.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I wish I had in some senses

sd	I like biographies of people's lives, like, especially like athletes,	b	Uh huh.

sd	for some reason it seems to interest me, like people that make a big comeback or, you know, Orel Hershiser, things like that.	ba	Sure.

sd	but they usually have some good articles in it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm more true, you know, nonfiction.	b	Yeah,

sd	but, not to say I wouldn't,	b	Yeah.

qw	What was the last book you read?	^h	jeez,

qy	Really?	ny	You know , yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	working a lot of hours at work

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah,

aa	I know.	sd	a lot time is spent doing things as far as the yard work or housework or, you know, that type of thing.

sd	and so I'm not doing very well	sd	But see I do crafts too,

b	Yeah.	sd	so it's hard,

sd	I let newspapers stack up and magazines stack up, if I don't really set aside a time to look or read them.	aa	and that's like myself

b	Yeah.	sd	I really do

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know about you.

b	Yeah.	sd	if I'm really interested in what I'm reading, I mean, hours can go by

b	Uh huh.	sd	In fact, I'd rather read sometimes than watch T V.

aa	I would too.	sv	But I think you get out of the habit, like you say,

qy	Have you ever read, or heard of the book THIS PRESENT DARKNESS?	nn	No.

sd	just hurry up and go through without putting down, you know.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'll stay up until two or three o'clock in the morning, you know, because I'm so engrossed in it

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know what you would call it,

sv	I'm sure it's fast or something.	sv	It's terrible,

sd	I just sleep better or something.	aa	yeah,

b	But,	sd	I have a lot of craft books that I have too and, magazines.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I like to, read about people who have been a successful, you know, who made a success of their lives.

qw	Well, how about who,	sd	Like I say, haven't done it in such a long time.

qy	Do you know who it was about?	no	well, I went to, seminar on,

b	Uh huh.	sd	How he started out as just a salesman and now he's, you know, multimillionaire and that type of thing,

b	Yeah.	sd	it's not someone else,

b	Yeah.	sd@	And I find that fascinating that people, you know, can do that kind of thing. Just make up their minds that that's it. You know, have this one direction. / * more than one utt

bf	And then do it.	aa^m	Do it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, kind of off the wall.

ba	Well, that's all right.	aa	I know,

qy^g	You're not ridged right? / * spelling: rigid	ny	Yeah,

ba	That's good.	sv	That's funny,

sd	There may be some schools you could read about and learn.	aa	That's true,

sd	about twenty.	ba	that's not bad.

aa	No.	ba	That's not bad at all.

aa	No.	qy	Do you like your job?

sd	I do.	ba	that's, that's important.

sd	I've been there about three years.	qy	Do you have a family?

sd	and, most of my family's in Indiana.	b	uh huh.

sd	So, I've only been in Texas three years.	qy	Do you like it?

sd	I love the weather down here.	sd	I loved, I loved Abilene too.

aa	I know.	sd	Except for tornados .

sd	Boy they have storms here	aa	Yes

b	Yeah.	ba	Unpredictable.

qy	Were you here during the hailstorm two years ago?	nn	no.

sd	a lot of people had their cars totaled just from hail.	ba	wow.

sv	I think State Farm went bankrupt. Just about .	ba	jeez.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah,

sd	and Colorado Springs.	qy^d^m	And Colorado Springs?

sd	and he was telling me about it.	ba	wow.

sd	They just sold it.	ba	Amazing.

sd	Closed up and moved down to McKinney.	ba	well, that's good.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's scary though I'm telling you.

aa	I know .	h	I don't know,

br	How do I feel what?	sd	that books influence,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I feel like it's important for young children to read too. And what you read to them.

b	Yeah.	sd	When my children were younger, of course,

ba	That's good.	sd	And, I think they've all developed kind of an interest in reading also.

b	yeah.	sd	I'm not saying they read all the right things

b	yeah.	sv	because, even today where people are so illiterate and they go off to school and really nothing happens, I mean, they don't learn anything.

sd	it's really surprising how many people graduate from high school, that I work with	b	Yeah.

sv	and, it's really, It's pretty sad.	ba	it's unbelievable,

sd	A lot of people that work for me that can't even spell or read, you know.	aa	Exactly,

b	Yeah.	sv	because, I think even mentally when you can do some,

fa	I'm sorry,	bd	That's okay,

sd	hobbies.	b	Okay.

cc^t	I'll do it again.	b	Okay.

qy^g	I hear you have kids, right?	sd	You heard her in the background .

qy^g	That's your full time, hobby, right?	na	Takes a lot of time,

b	Uh huh.	sd	little bit of embroidery work, once in a while.

b	Uh huh.	qo	What do you like to do?

sd	I try to do some painting, although I'm not very good at it .	ba	Well, I'm sure you probably are.

bd	not really.	sv	You like it,

sd	I have, you know, I inherited the genes that make me think I'm creative, but not the ones that give me the ability to be.	aa	That's right.

sd	I'm making drapes for my house, just because I'm,	ba	boy, that's hard sewing.

sv	it's just being able to lay out the material and measure it because you need so much room.	bf	Measure it and get it to,

sd	I've been doing that	ba	That's a lot of work.

sd	So that, at least I can do, you know, watching T V or whatever	b	Oh.

sd	and I've gone and, you know, put the needle through my thumb a few times , trying to get it through	ba	That feels really good.

sd	so that's not really my favorite thing to do or anything, but I need to do it.	aa^m	To do it,

sd	Keeping fish, I guess is my biggest hobby.	b^m	Keeping fish .

sd	It depends on how frequently they die, and how much that bothers you.	ba	no.

sd	and they always died immediately,	ba	no.

sv	and, what I think now is the reason is I kept the tank too clean	ba	you're kidding

sv	and then it keeps all the chemicals in balance.	b	I see.

sd	And I would just take everything out and just like, you know, wash it with scalding hot water	ba	no.

sd	and that would screw up all the chemical cycles again	bf	And so you'd have to start all over to build that up probably.

sd	So now I only clean things to make things look more aesthetically pleasing	aa	Right,

sd	and I don't try and sterilize things .	bf	Don't go through the whole nine yards

aa	That's right.	bf	So you've had fish for a long time.

sd	But that never worked well.	qw	What size do you have now?

sd	It's a lot easier.	qy	Have you ever had it, crack or break or leak.

sd^e	not yet.	sv	Fifty five gallons, you'd hope it would never do that.

sd	I really do.	qy	Do you have all kinds of different fish

sd^e	I just have, you know, what they call community fish guppies, and platies and basic things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't get into the	^2	Real exotic.

sd	The expensive ones.	sv	Well, they're probably harder to take care of

sv	and, you know, when they die it's more like an investment.	b	Yes,

sv	You lost an investment	qy	Do you have problems with the fish eating each other?

sd	Only if there's baby fish.	b	Right.

sd	You always have to isolate those.	qw	how do you isolate them?

sd	You get a	qy^d	A jar or something

sd^e	they have breeders.	bk	Okay.

sd	It's a little plastic things that sort of floats	b	Okay.

sd	and then it's got like a trough underneath her	b	Okay.

sd	and there's a hole in the middle so they fall into the bottom part of the chamber so the mother can't get to them either.	b	Oh.

sd	but it's also got slots in it so the water can circulate	b	Right.

sd	it'll fit out the slots.	bf^m	It'll go through the slot.

sd	But, you know, it works, I guess.	qy^d	That works all right then.

sd	they'll eat them.	qy^d	They will.

ny	Yeah.	qy	Isn't that odd.

ny	Yes.	sv	You wouldn't think that.

sd	and it's funny because the one I have, every single month without fail she has babies.	ba	You're kidding.

sd	and I've seen her do it.	qy^g	And that just makes you sick almost, doesn't it?

sd	well, it makes you understand that, you know, things are different .	bf	Things are different in the animal kingdom,

sv	but you know, that's the way it is for them.	b	Yeah.

aa	That's it.	bf	Survival of the fittest or something.

sd	because if the baby is strong enough, it can swim away fast enough and go hide.	b	Right.

b^r	yeah.	qy^d	but. If you're like me, you never have enough time for the hobbies.

ad	tell me what you think about the Vietnam war.	aa	Okay.

sd	France was there first.	sd	We got into it because of SEATO agreement, back just right after World War Two that, we pledged a mutual, defense of the South Vietnamese,

b	Sure.	sv	so, we, we have to deal with the, situation as we played it.

qw	Jerry, what did you think of people like, Jane Fonda, another anti war activist.	sv	don't get me started on those people.

qy	Right or wrong?	na	okay,

sd	I thought we came in as first advisors to the French, and then they decided to pull out	ad	Can you hold just a second, Terry?

aa	Sure.	ad	One moment please.

t1	Well that's not,	fa	Sorry for the delay.

bd	That's okay.	sd	the, the, mutual defense thing was,

qy^d	had thought that they had, colonies there, or something.	ny	Well, yeah,

bk	Right.	sd	and they're also our allies in SEATO, which was the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization, which has since been, disbanded as far as I know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, we kind of, we kind of got the ball rolling ourselves versus a bunch of top secret silly operations and then the you know, full scale troops, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.

sd	Seventy four is when they quit sending troops.	aa	yeah,

qy	did you get to watch it?	nn	No,

qy	Are you a Cowboy fan?	no	Well, I used to be a real big Cowboy fan

aa	yeah.	sd	it's kind of hard not to be a Cowboy fan, though.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They've always been, you know, my favorite.

b	Right.	sd	and and I guess I still have a soft spot.

b	Yeah.	sd	I just hate that that's the coach that's leading them.

b	Right.	qy^g	they're in the playoffs, right?

sd	so everybody's really going crazy, you know, down here.	ba	I'll bet they are.

sd	but, you know, now it's like, you know, they're doing good so everybody's forgotten about that.	sv	football fans are probably the most fickle people in the world.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Hit a bad season

aa	Right.	sv	First good season, the coach can do no wrong.

aa	exactly. You know.	sd	But they Dallas has always been good ahead, you know, heading good players and both running backs and defense.

sd	so everybody is really excited.	qw	Who is the competition going to be?

sv	so everything's, looking real good.	sv	Course, I think, you know, you can't really go by what happened earlier in the season because teams jell together or they've had injuries that heal

b	Right.	sd	and, you know it can be a tot , or injuries that, have newly happened and it could be almost a totally new team out there than the one we played.

sd	so he transferred to U C L A.	sd	Well, Well, he really didn't feel like he'd be able to do a lot of passing at O U.

b	Right.	sd	O U has always been known for their running game.

sd	They're playing tonight in fact.	b	Right.

sd	But they're doing some stomping on Virginia.	^h	I tell you,

sd	Well, they're doing good tonight.	qy	Are they?

ny	Yeah	sd	I haven't been watching.

sd	they're winning. They're winning forty one to seven.	ba	Well, good for us .

b	Right.	b	Oh.

sd	I forgot about that.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	U C L A.	b	Yeah.

qo	What do you think? .	sd	Well, I can't be terribly authoritative on what life was like thirty years ago, because I'm not that old yet.

ad	but go ahead .	sd	I mean you didn't have video games.

b	Right.	sd	you go into a business today

sd	We fax everything.	b	Yeah.

sd	We don't even wait for the mail anymore.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd@	And now it's the kind of thing where you can work up until the last minute. * slash error Because you can get it there, you know * "Because" as connector; sd in a matter of minutes you know, through a fax machine

b	Right.	sv	and because of that, these quote, unquote convenience type items have made work that much more intense and that much harder.

b	Right.	sv	Because you're expected to work on stuff up until the last minute.

sd	but the more conveniences we have, the more that's expected of us	b	Uh huh.

sv	Like we don't stop and wait for things to happen because we don't have to.	b	Yeah.

sv	So we have no relaxation time in between	b	Uh huh.

sd	so they say that's really a bad thing. That you need to learn a lot of ways to deal with that and get your time in between things.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, I'm wondering what this is going to do in ten and twenty years.	aa	Well, there's that

sd	I never really thought about it that way.	b	Yeah,

aa	That's true.	sd	Well, In terms of the long term effect on America, in terms of the culture and everything, I don't know.

sv	We don't know that yet .	sv	 of the next generation is going to be or, or an, ex , ex , extremely large part of the next generation is going to be, you know, second generation, from immigrant parents.

aa	That's true.	sv	And they're going to be really struggling

aa^m	right.	sd	I mean, it's no longer the, the accomplishment that it once was

sv	and I guess every ten years it's just been very different.	b	Yeah .

sd	I know what I'm seeing here at my job is that people are having their children much later in life so that they're establishing careers	aa	Yeah,

qy	do you vote regular? .	ny	Yeah,

b^m	Every one.	sd	But, that's just since, in the past say about six years.

sd	I've never paid any attention to voting.	bh	you haven't?

nn	Huh uh.	b	Yeah.

^2	Unless you have something to do with it.	aa	Yeah.

aa	Right.	sd	But the problem is, that I am very liberal politically

qw	what do you mean by liberal,	sd	Liberal politically,

sd	Well see, I don't know anything about politics.	bh	you don't?

qw	what's the main difference between Republicans and Democrats?	bk	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, the Democrats were the Doves,

qy^d	and you vote for the Democrats	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	Usually.	ny	yeah

b	Uh huh.	sd	the big Republican thing is that they vote for less government,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so they're less apt to vote in, you know, more aid to people,

bk	okay.	qy	so have you ever voted at all?

sd^e	I never have.	qy	You haven't?

nn	Huh uh.	qw	How old are you?

sd	I'm twenty six.	ba	gosh.

sd	well, I don't know that much about it.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and I don't feel like I have enough knowledge on it to even, you know, to pick the right person.	b	Yeah.

sv	So that's what they need, well, they said something to improve voting.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you know what I mean?	ny	Yeah,

qy	wasn't it a woman.	nn	No,

sd	There was a woman that was running for vice president for a while.	aa	yeah,

sd	Ferraro.	aa	yeah

bk	Okay .	b	Yeah,

sd	like I didn't know what the difference between Dukakis and Bush was.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, I didn't know anything about Bush or Dukakis.	qw	So what do you think about what you see on T V about them, like in the news or on the ads,

sd	I don't remember anything about Dukakis,	qy	You don't?

sd	but, well they're all saying that they're going to do, you know, whatever is best for their campaign anyway.	b	Uh huh,

sv	if they had some kind of public programs where you can just go out and,	b	Uh huh.

sd	like you know, in school they didn't teach you about the government, not really.	b	Right.

nn	Huh uh.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	Or they word it so that it's really hard to tell where they're standing on certain issues.

sd	I know how they do it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	like with the abortion issues and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sv	it all depends again on whose writing it and who they're for, because they can slant that too.

sv	also the politicians put out what makes them look good anyway.	b	Uh huh,

sv	And everybody's got, you know, stuff they don't want known.	aa	Right,

sd	I didn't have much knowledge.	bd	Well that's okay.

sd	I don't even remember this being on there.	sv	like, God, this is really good actually, for to talk to somebody who hasn't voted,

^2	Incentive?	qw	how, what kind of stuff would you like them to do so that you would know more about it.

sd	now I'm sure they've got it at the library, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've got two babies, so, I don't,	qy	do you?

h	But I don't know.	qy	Or do you feel like it's not really going to make that much difference if you don't vote

sd	I know if enough people think like that it, you know, would make a difference, if people stopped thinking like that.	b	Yeah.

sd	well a lot of people, they'll vote the way their family votes, you know,	b	Uh huh.

qy@	since you're what, Democrat? * slash error Then like your kids or whatever will follow you and just vote Democrat,	ny	Uh huh,

aa	right.	b	Uh huh,

aa	No.	sd	we're really independent.

bf	All split.	sd	But a lot of families do that.

b	Right.	sv	And that kind of keeps from getting a lot of issues resolved .

sd	if I did understand politics I probably would vote more,	b	Uh huh.

sd	or like when, Gary Hart was running, a lot of women would have voted for him just because he was nicer looking,	^2	Hart?

sd	but, he was young.	b	Yeah.

sv	And then, I didn't think that was right, because he may have been a good president, or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	he had an affair,	b	Yeah,

sd	and it just threw him out of the whole running.	b	Yeah.

sd	And a lot of people go by their, personal life when they vote	b	Uh huh,

sv	Which I guess if you got turmoil in your personal life, you're going to let it come into work	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	aa	that's very true,

sv	Well, criminal or something like that's different,	aa	Yeah,

sv	but, if him and his wife weren't getting along,	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you know what I mean?	ny	Yeah,

sv	see we really don't see the, the true person anyway.	aa	That's right.

b	Right.	sv	But see they're trying to find an excuse not to deal with you know, the issues that people really want to know about, because on those issues you have to say yes or no.

b	Right.	sv	So they just try and make it a personal thing,

b	Uh huh .	sd	That's about what it looked like.

qw	Well what did you think of Reagan as a president?	sv	I just thought he was really inept.

qy	Do you think he won from Carter because of the hostages that were held at that time?	no	Well I think that was part of it,

b	Uh huh.	sv	people just had a picture of Carter as not being real capable,

sd	I thought Carter was good too,	qy	Did you?

qy^g	that's been about ten years ago, right?	ny	Uh huh,

sd	and I liked him.	qy	You did?

sd^e	I sure don't.	sd	Well he is really active still politically.

qy	Well, guess it's logical to ask, do you exercise any?	ng	Well, unfortunately very little.

sd	and I don't really get out a lot because my job, to, to exercise.	sd	Well, I, am an assistant teacher in business technology

b	Right.	sv	exercise is so important.

aa	It is.	sd	And I realize that.

sd	I can tell that I've not really done a whole lot.	qw	When you, exercise, what do you do?

sd	stuff like that.	sd	I got a hold of, Richard Simmons' tape,

bh	really?	t1	what is it,

qy	the SWEATING TO THE OLDIES?	b^m	Sweating to the oldies, / * title

bh	really?	sd	That's pretty upbeat,

b	Right.	sd	Not often enough to have a routine .

b	Right.	sd	My little Schnauzer wishes I would get out and walk with her.

bh	really?	sd	But, I don't know,

sd	Too tired to exercise. * slash error I did.	b	Yes.

sd	so I gave it up.	sd	Here, about the most common exercise for people is to go to the malls and walk,

^2	Walk around.	sd	Because they're enclosed

sd	and people will walk around the mall.	sv	And it's safe.

aap	it is fairly safe.	sd	That's, you know, inside the mall

sv	certain parts of it.	sd	I know a doctor once told me it,

sd	but I love to swim and water ski and stuff like that.	sv	The, swimming, they say, uses more muscles than any other exercise with,

b	Right.	b	Right,

bf	you can't do it year round.	sd	Summertime only.

sd	that's the way ours is.	sv	You don't go out when it's twenty some odd degrees, go out to the swimming pool.

sv	it's too cold.	sv	Hot tubs are not too bad,

sv	Those are nice.	qw	So, what part of Mississippi are you from?

sd	I'm from Laurel.	qw	Whereabouts is that?

sd	but we're about two hours from the coast.	b	Oh,

sd	It started raining and got real cold.	sd	Ours started Thanksgiving.

b	Oh.	sd	And, from there just,

b	Right.	sd	And, there was no exercise.

qy	so you enjoy camping?	ny	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I, like you, I haven't done any in quite some time except for what I call living now which is very close to camping .

b	Uh huh.	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it is cheaper to pitch a tent and cook your meals out by the fire than it is to rent an apartment add to stress.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, when you have to have it, you have got to have it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, you know, in those those kinds of situations, room rent which is outrageous.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, my buddy and I, we just camped .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we figured, what the hell,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Of course, we didn't really rough it that much.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But it wasn't very much like camping because we had a refrigerator and a stove .

b	well . Yeah.	sd	You know, I had a little boat house and floated it out on Lake Grapevine.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, well, it was fantastic.

b	Uh huh	sd	and then we would go to work and come back to the, you know, boat house at night

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it was great.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, you know, now all my life is more like camping than not camping really.

qy	Do you have electricity out there.	ny	yeah.

sv	You've got a phone obviously .	aap	Well, actually as a matter of fact, they just ran the phone three years ago.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We didn't have a phone.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They didn't have phone lines.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, we are third from the end on the electric string.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, we are at the end of the mail route .

b	Yeah.	sv	Like I said, we are probably as far as you can get from the Seven Eleven and still be in Texas.

am	I guess so,	sd	But, you know, right now, what we did, my wife and I, is we got a mobile home. One of these twelve by forty eight's that got repoed, And, swapped them a Cadillac for it and put it out here on the land figuring I would build a house some day, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm in construction

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I came home from work one Friday afternoon

b	Yeah.	sd	it is not horrible,

sd	well I grew up in California, in southe , in central California right in the valley.	b	Uh huh.

sd	First, we went up with a Toyota pick up truck and laid out our sleeping bags under the stars and you know cooked our, hot dogs by the fire or whatever.	ba	Sure.

sv	so, we have kind of moved up.	^2	Became civilized.

sv	A little bit in the world.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	roughing it for me is going to the Holiday Inn and getting a shower. You know.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, you know, she has a lot of fun.

b	Uh huh.	sd	she goes to dog shows.

b	Uh huh.	sd	See, she shows dogs

b	Uh huh.	sd	but you can't sneak ten dogs into a motel.

aa	No .	sd	So, she, you know, takes the motor home .

b	Uh huh.	sd	if he would buy her a motor home .

ba	that's, That will be pretty.	sd	I am going to need a vacation .

sd	We're set.	bk	Okay.

qw	What changes do you feel have happened?	sv	I guess the first thing has been for the right, for women to vote.

qy^g	Increases each year, doesn't it?	br	I'm sorry?

sv	It increases each year I think.	aa	It sure does.

sv	Well, and I think women have kind of had, in the past the real subservient role.	^2	Role?

sv	Well, we do to some degree	b	Right.

sv	but, I think it's not as much as it was.	aa	Right,

sv	I, And especially, I think with women increasingly working, they're going to have to demand more from men.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Because there is just, impossible to keep up on everything else.	b	Yeah,

sv	Have more of an active role in taking care of children, more of an active role in taking care of the home.	h	and I don't know, what the status is on it,

b	Right.	h	but you know, I haven't really heard much about that recently.

sv	Well, you know, there is a lot of companies that won't give women maternity leave for that very reason.	b	Uh huh.

sd	 you simply have to accumulate your sick leave. And take your sick leave.	bh	is that right?

sd	because they thought was showing prejisim to women and not to men	ba	that's interesting.

aa	, it is.	sd	I mean, You got to take the time off .

sv	and that's usually how it's, happened,	b	Yeah.

qw	What do you see, changing in the future?	sv	I think that we're probably going to see a lot more companies, run by females.

aa	Right,	br	I'm sorry?

sv	Maybe top level.	aa	Right,

ba	That would be kind of nice .	sd	Well, in Texas, we have a female governor.

aa^r	that's right.	sd	And we had a female mayor here in Dallas,

sv	A little more integration.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, maybe not so much that we sit on the back burners	b	Right, you know,

b	Right.	sv	there are issues that, you know, as far as, like, equal pay for men and women and that kind of stuff, I totally am for.

b	Right.	sd	But, I don't get into the real women libber movement, you know.

sv	I don't think they're ever going to prove that men and women are equal .	b	Yeah.

sv	We just function differently .	aa	Right,

sd	And, I'm not capable of lifting what, a man can lift and you know, that type of thing,	b	Yeah.

sv	I'm sure, in Dallas since you're big places, a lot more women are, working right out of their home with their P C's or with their lap computers or whatever.	aa	Yeah,

na	Right.	bk	Yeah,

sd	You only have to check in with the office once or twice a week	b	Yeah.

sd	Course, they're talking about, that we're going to be able to do our grocery shopping and banking and everything like that,	^2	By the phone and all that.

sv	and some ways, it might be kind of scary.	b	Right.

sv	Think anybody could do it,	b	Right.

qh	Would you have to give them the brand	b	Right.

fp	Hi.	fp	Hi,

qy	You didn't try rewallpapering?	nn	No.

qy	Did you use a textured paint	nn	no.

qy	Well, did you get good results?	nn	Well, no,

b	Yeah.	sd	I need to, either paper back over it or do something .

qy	But it didn't, it didn't cover it?	ny	Yeah.

sd	and I forgotten what it was you put down, and then you can just paint right over the dark.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was, just a real dark, wood grain type paneling	b	Uh huh.

sd	but because of the dark behind it, it was really hard to cover	qy	Was it like a primer?

sd	the job was considerably tougher than we thought.	b	Yeah.

sd	and the people quoted thirty thousand dollars to paint it or something.	ba	my goodness,

qy	have you tried getting outside estimates to see what it costs to have something painted?	ng	Not inside.

b	Yeah.	sd	and it was fairly reasonable.

b	Yeah.	sd	if I remember right, it was like five hundred dollars.

ba	that's quite reasonable.	aa	Yeah.

qy	have you tried matching paint lately?	nn	No,

sd	But my wife went to the, Home Depot, I think it was, and took a copy, took a piece of brick	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they've got this machine that matches the color of paint.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it does it, electronically something, magic.	b	Oh,

sd	but it's electronic.	b	Yeah.

sd	and then they wanted some gray to do the trim.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but didn't occur to them that they could have taken a sample from,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, of course, if it's all white you're all right	b	Uh huh.

qy	have you had problems getting colors to match?	ny	Yeah.

qw	what's the solution then?	no	I have no idea.

qy^g	Well, at least you'll get very good at it, right?	ny	Yeah.

sv	You could go back and paint, the whole thing over	aa	Yeah.

sd	I'll just do a little bit here and a little there .	b	Yeah.

sd	they don't do that in the newer houses now	b	Yeah.

sd	In a new house everything is white.	aa^m	White,

sd	We wound up selling the house.	b	Yeah.

sd	in our down stairs in our dining room we have a formal dining room, it has molding, like picture frames, I don't know what you call that that actually, that are along the walls, you know, up a couple of feet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And my wife painted the insides of those dark blue.	ba	I see.

sd	And, it makes the room look remarkably smaller.	qw^d	She painted the insides dark blue and then the trim, what color ?

sd	The trim, is still white.	bk	Okay.

sd	and she did that all the way around the room which makes it look very attractive,	b	Yeah.

sd	but it makes the room look smaller which is, which is,	b	Yeah.

sv	but I, you wouldn't think that I,	b	Yeah.

sv	well, maybe, maybe that understands colors would know all of that stuff	b	Yeah.

sd^e	because the house has so many windows	bk	uh huh.

sd	we have a soccer field that's, about a hundred yards from our house	b	Uh huh.

sd	we didn't know that when we bought the house	qy^d	the color doesn't really matter because you have that light.

sd	so. Anyway, it didn't, it didn't change	ba	I see .

sd	it kind of bled under the masking tape which, I guess, is probably the topic we're we're really on to that the masking is,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you have to do that very, very carefully.	sd	And it takes a long time,

fo	Well, I'm sorry to hear your color didn't come out so good over the weekend.	aa	Yeah.

sv	It's kind of frustrating.	aa	It is.

fc	It's been good talking to you.	fc	Nice talking to you.

fc	Good bye.	fc	Bye .

qw	what do you think are some current trends in, the way families spend time together, based on what you've seen.	sv	I think that it's getting to where they're not spending time together.

b	Yeah .	sv	I think, like in my situation, today, on a weekend when couples are supposed to spend time together, my husband's been off doing his thing all day today,

qr	or,	sd	two years.

sd	I can, I know what you mean.	sv	it's really hard to find time to spend together when you both work full time and, you both have hobbies that are different.

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, if you have hobbies that are the same, then, you know, you can enjoy your hobby together,

qy	Is he a hunter and a fisher and all that.	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I was off, you know, doing, you know, household type things. You know, laundry

b	Yeah.	sd	and, did some shopping and stuff.

sd	and, they could spend more time with their kids	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, you know, they're all like, kind of regretful, I think.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't have that choice.

sd	same here.	sd	I have to be at work at X hour, you know, at, at a certain hour

b	Yeah.	sv	it would be nice to be able to have flexible hours

qy	At T I, is that where you work?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	and then they wouldn't see them at night, because they would be you know, at work and the kids are all ready in bed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	This relative may work even a weirder shift like weekends, or something, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	A lot of people choose to, which is fine.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, you know, then the kids kind of suffer.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	the mom stayed home, you know, and raised the kids.

b	Yeah.	sd	so she was there pretty much all my, you know, formative years.

b	Yeah.	sd	And that was nice

qy	do you think it's more like watching T V and stuff like that, not really, ...	sv	yeah, I, I think that, I think very few spend quality time.

b	Yeah .	sv	I think that, most kids that I see they don't really value quality time.

sv	it's always that way until it's too late.	sv	until they're older

sd	we didn't really have one .	bh	really.

sd	I guess I didn't realize what a luxury it was at the time.	sv	I think kids now a days are raised on T V.

sv	that's a good way to put it.	sv	and not a very good one at that.

qo	well if you had kids, what kind of things do you hope to do? .	sd	I hope to, of course, be able to teach them right from wrong.

b	Yeah.	sd	I, I know a lot of people who,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they do a lot of volunteer work

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'd like to be able to do that.

bf	Do volunteer work and, be in clubs and stuff,	aa	Yeah.

sd	I hope that happens, in my case.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah. .	sv	And I don't, I don't really see that trend changing much,

sv	and what's sad about that is day cares end up instilling values in your kids. That may not necessarily be consistent with yours.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah .	sd	I never had that kind of experience.

sd	I don't even remember them being around when we were little.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	It's like a home away from home for a lot of them.

sv	we seem to agree.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yeah,	fc	Well it was really nice talking to you.

fc	I wish you the best.	fc	Thanks

fc	thanks.	fc	bye,

qo	What vacations have you been on that you like?	sd	well I really enjoyed,

b	Right.	sd	It's in the middle of Michigan

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like, driving to different cities because of the scenery,

bf	most of yours is kind of driving	aa	Yeah,

qw	how far do you usually end up driving	sd	the furthest I drove was probably Texas,

qw	Now you're from where? * slash error Wisconsin.	sd	Kenosha, Wisconsin.

sd	I have a brother in Minnesota that used to live in Wisconsin.	b	Oh.

bf	that's quite a ways.	aa	Yeah,

sd	we went to California this last year and, liked it,	b	Uh huh.

sv	Walt Disney World, and other places, it's just the wrong time of the year to go.	b	yeah.

sv	And, course, you get in any of those tourist traps and everything's, outrageously priced,	b	Uh huh.

sv	you wonder if it's really worth it to pay, thirty five dollars or forty dollars just to get in.	aa	Yeah

sd	But, There's lots of fun places to see.	aa	that's true.

qy	that's something do to, like to get up in mountains / * two utts	ny	yeah,

qy	Do you have any mountains nearby?	nn	No .

qy^g	Pretty flat, isn't it?	ny	Yeah,

sv	I think, the biggest limitation is a lot, just time and money, isn't it.	b	yeah.

qw	What vacation have you enjoyed the most?	sd	Probably, when we go to Wisconsin .

qw	What is it?	sd	it's like a huge amusement park they have water slides

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's just a big, big tourist attraction.

qy^g	Probably a city in itself, kind of like, huh?	ny	Yeah,

qw	How far away is it?	sd	from Kenosha, it's about three hours.

ba	sure.	b	Yeah,

ba	Sure.	sd	it's a pretty ride up there, too.

sd	our climate's real dry	qw	Where is that?

sv	You don't have as much of the greenery like you have.	b	Oh,

ny	Yes.	bk	Okay .

qy	You ever heard of Boise?	ny	yeah,

sv	It's kind of fun to have a little bit diversity, and things like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, boy, they're gorgeous	b	yeah.

sd	and that's real pretty over there too.	b	Oh.

sd	But I think I'm kind of a summer vacationer.	aa	yeah,

b	Right.	aa	Yeah,

qw	well what movies do you like?	^h	Gosh,

sd	and he loves them.	sd	Well, we don't have any kids

qw	How old are you all?	sd	we're late twenties.

bk	okay.	aa	No.

sd	Well I've got two.	ba	gosh.

sd	I had his birthday party yesterday.	b	Oh.

qy	Is it as good as they say it is?	sd	It was,

ba	Good.	qw	What's the last movie you saw?

sd	GHOST.	b	Oh

sv	but, it was good movie,	ba	Not too awful bad.

sd@	though, I can see why it won so many Oscars . / * slash error "though" should go with prev. utt	b	Yeah.

sd	And I like Demi Moore.	qy	Did you see PRETTY WOMAN?

sd	and we don't have cable.	ba	gosh.

sd	it's just, you know, glued to the T V all the time anyway.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm from Kentucky originally,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we used to get five channels without cable.	b	Yeah.

qy	do you watch soap operas?	na	once in a while, when I'm home.

qy	you work then?	ny	Yeah.

sd	well we get the channel with YOUNG AND THE RESTLESS on it.	bk	Okay.

sd	and that comes on different channel.	aa	Yeah,

sd	But we've got a V C R and a lot of tapes.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, my husband is a movie fanatic.	sv	I think you would really like PRETTY WOMAN,

qy	have you seen that.	ny	Yeah,

sv	That's good.	sv	I was disappointed in it just because of how violent it was.

qy	have you seen it?	ny	Yeah.

sd	The part where they're shooting mercy .	sd	I don't like that.

sv	and their, the language on that's filthy.	sv	I don't see why they have to do that,

aa	I know.	sd	But I think lately PRETTY WOMAN'S been my favorite.

fa	Sorry.	bd	That's okay.

sv	now, you're glad you ain't got a four year old.	bd	That's okay .

sd	I like the, SIXTEEN CANDLES, or sixteenth birthday or,	sv^2	I think SIXTEEN CANDLES was the name of it.

sd	and I loved it.	sd	I haven't seen it either.

sd	well if you like love stories, it's sweet.	sd	I do.

sd	I mean it makes you feel really sorry for her.	ba	gosh.

sd	I don't know, he looks like a little boy next door,	b	Oh.

sd	He kind of looks like DOOGIE HOWSER.	sd	I don't know.

sd	he just a little freckly, little boy.	sv	Probably know him if I saw him.

sd	if I could remember the name, I know you'd know his name, because he's played in a few movies.	sd	I was just thinking another good one I saw not too long ago was, SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY.

sd	but I can't remember it.	sd	that's, that's Julia Roberts' new movie.

sv	Julia Roberts is good.	aa	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sd	and this one was a lot more dramatic.

qy	Wasn't it a murder mystery?	nd	Y , well,

sd	yeah, that's the one I wanted to see where she was on a carnival, at a carnival on a Ferris wheel or something.	b	Yeah,

qr	or did it come out in the,	nn	No,

b	Oh.	sd	And I think, you know, around here, it's all ready quit playing.

sd	but it's just been down here a couple weeks, I think.	b	okay,

b	Yeah.	sd	because we saw it, probably, four or five months ago.

sd	he shaved the beard off.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	it was scary.

qy	have you seen that?	ny	Oh yeah,

qy	You didn't?	nn	No,

sd	well the only reason I know why it ended is on ARSENIO HALL one night, Christopher Reeves told, that, you know,	b	Uh huh.

qr	Christopher Reeve or Mike Douglas.	sv	Might have been Michael Douglas. that starred in it. / * listen

b	Yeah.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Christopher Reeve wasn't in it at all?	nn	Huh uh.

sd	We've both been wanting to see it.	sd	I, I, it was, it was weird.

sd	well we was, teasing, about, you know, splitting our house down the middle .	b	Yeah .

qy	and they marked off routes that they could go or something .	ny	Yeah,

sd	so we could do it.	ba	That wouldn't be too bad.

sd	so we can, you know	^2	Get around.

fa	sorry.	qy	Well did you see FATAL ATTRACTION?

sd^e	that's coming back, on too .	sd	I know it's going to be on the, on C B S Tuesday night

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's kind of how WAR OF THE ROSES was.

sd	I'd like to see that and, THE NEVER ENDING STORY, came out on Disney this month, I think.	sd	I I've heard about that

sd	I wanted to see that.	sd	but I don't know what it's about.

br	THE NEVER ENDING STORY?	aa	Yeah.

sd	I enjoyed it.	sd	I love Disney movies.

aa	I do too	sv	I mean, they're some of the best that are made.

sd	all's I can really remember is him flying this great big dog, this great big huge sheep dog sort of looking thing,	ba	Oh go ,

qy	Did you see that movie with Fred Savage in it, though,	no	I don't think so.

sd	it was THE PRINCESS BRIDE.	nn	Nope,

sd	I like, I like slapstick comedy.	aa	So do I

sd	and she said that was hilarious.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Two and a half . / * is this a title??	sd	It was funny.

sd	and said it was real good	sd	and WORKING GIRL is really good.

sd	Now, I seen that,	sv	That was good.

sd	she pretended to be the boss or something.	ny	Yeah.

qy	Did you see HOME ALONE? .	ny	Yes,

qo^t	well how is it appropriate to be talking about exercise attitudes? .	sd	well, my husband is right now teaching an aerobics class.

b	Uh huh.	sd*	He's an aerobics instructor. And, is going to be, entering North Texas for a Kinesiology program there. / * two utts?

b	Uh huh.	sd	how I met him was through, the aerobics class that he used to teach.

qy	You're a student?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Enjoying you know, anything dealing with sports.

b^r	uh huh.	qo	So, and how do you feel about it? .

sd	this is my exercise time	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I have to admit I have a certain resistance to the idea of exercising for exercising's sake,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and perhaps, it's because somehow that implies to me it's not fun, or something like that.	b	Yeah,

aa^r	yes.	sd	and, she doesn't enjoy it when it's a chore.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	calculated down

b	Uh huh.	sd	or, but, but I do try and regulate how much exercise I get a week.

qy	Is that why you like aerobics classes, because someone else is doing the counting for you, so, it makes it less of a chore?	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So it involves, you know,

sv	would that we could .	aa	Yeah,

b	uh huh.	sv	So, it is like dance,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And, someone else is telling me, okay, you know, let's move this way, let's move that way, instead of me having to think about it so much.

sv	and all you do is follow along and enjoy yourself.	aa	Yeah,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	and it, it's something you can all,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, biking

sd	Well, you're talking to someone from California where it's often swimming weather .	bk	Oh,

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	and, I didn't realize that they were going to reach out to people from, all over the country.

sv	but, the remarkable thing is how well the fads catch on elsewhere.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, there must be something to some of them.	sv	Well, I think people are more inc ,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Not just exercise, but, health related ideas.

b	Yeah.	sv	it's curious, I don't know why, don't know if it's,

sd	And, the, the University of California at Berkeley puts out THE WELLNESS LETTER. Which turned into a fairly well subscribed to, newsletter, monthly or biweekly newsletter or something like that	b	Uh huh.

sd	there's been some progressive medical schools out here, that have taken that approach.	b	Uh huh .

^h	Boy,	qr	Do you think the program came first or the,

sv	you know, each developed a little bit and then would feed off one another and develop a little bit more, and a little bit more.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	bk	I can see that.

sv	and more and more people start believing them or wondering how to combine them with other things,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, before long, you get this whole kind of Gestalt, this whole package of health, of health care and options	b	Uh huh.

sv	The average person out on the farm, at least traditionally, now they drive fancy tractors as much as anything but } at least traditionally, the laborers,	b	Yeah.

br	Pardon me.	sv	Well, don't you think they tend to be older in the rural ar .

bf	like everything else.	sd	I live in a rural area,

bf	The rat race to exercise .	sv	yeah, it's, it's like it's frantic, to, you know, to, achieve, something that a person in a rural area, almost doesn't worry about it to such a degree, but stays, you know, almost healthier, you know, / * slash error; one utt with 116

sv	well I, I think so.	sd	as a fit person .

sd	and they combine it with a, you know, meditation or whatever. Some sort of relaxation	b	Uh huh.

sv	But you know, they live to a hundred and ten some , you know,	b	Yeah,

aa	That's true.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, they eat a lot of carbohydrates, and not much fat. for economical reasons, not for preference.	b	Uh huh.

o	am I actually.	br	What's that?

sd	as am I.	qy	are you also ,

ny	Yes .	sv	Well that's good as far as the cal ,

ny	yes.	qy	In the urban areas?

sd	for example most restaurants in an urban area will have a little vegetarian section now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well most, sort of modern looking restaurants will,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, and, it occurred to me,	sv	Well of course in the cities,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you get, an influx of a lot of people from all over the country,

b	Yeah.	sv	it's, it's changing to a degree,

b^r	uh huh.	sv	You don't really have that,

sd^t	I think, that's the way everybody has done it so far.	aa	Okay.

sv	but I don't think, anybody is just going to come in and fix it in a couple of weeks, because they've been messing it up for many years, now.	aa*	I have to agree that . / * listen

b	Yeah.	aa	And you're right.

b	Huh uh.	qh	I don't know what y'all are paying in Dallas,

sd	I think it's seven here.	b	Yeah.

sd	Seven point something.	b	Yeah.

b	Huh uh.	sd	Whole state.

b	Yeah .	sd	It drives me crazy.

qw	What state?	sd	I'm in Lubbock, Texas.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah.

sd	we're still one of few that don't have the, state tax .	aa	That's true.

aa	That's true.	sv	You don't sound like you're from Dallas.

sd	I've lived in the Dallas area here since I was like four.	bk	okay.

sd	I don't know.	qy^d	you just managed to escape the real Texan accent,

ny	Yeah.	sv	I thought maybe you had come from somewhere else and had some experience with taxes there.

sd	I've just lived here,	b	Yeah.

^q*	Render unto Caesar's what is Caesar's. / * listen	aa	That's right.

sd	So, you know, even in the story where they had to pay the taxes, the disciples, and, Jesus said the money in the fishes mouth or in the fisher, inside the fish.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, I thought of those two things when I was holding for a long time.	qy	were you really, trying to find someone at home?

ny	Yeah.	sd	Well, you know, back then what they tried to do, you know,

b	Right.	sd	And so that's what they were trying to do with the tax situation.

b	Right.	sv	I don't think they really cared about the answer,

b	Right.	sv	they just wanted to try and catch him in something .

b	Yeah.	sv	but I believe in paying taxes

ba	sure.	sd	you know, I don't want to pay more than I have to,

ba	Sure.	sv	And I get outraged when I feel like they go up for useless reasons,

b	Right.	sd	So, I really do,

b	Yeah	qy	do you deal with taxes much in what you do when you work

sd	so I've had to really switch around from the E Z form to the,	^2	Schedule A

aa	Right .	b	Well, yeah.

sd	All the deductions and all that.	qy	Did you notice that when they passed the new simplified tax act, it seemed like it made everything harder?

sd	I saw, that, too.	sd	I didn't notice anything simplified about it, except that they took away the deductions, the interest and, other things .

sd	We're looking at buying a house,	b	Yeah.

sd	And that was one of the main pluses that we have about buying a house.	sv	And it will help tremendously.

b	Yeah.	sd	We bought ours five years ago

b	Right.	sv	So that will definitely help in taxes and what you will get back.

sd	I know I get paid twice a month, every two weeks,	b	Huh uh.

sd	that's once a month.	b	Huh uh.

sd	Well, I get twenty six paychecks, which would come out to be in thirteen months.	aa	That's right.

sv	So if you pay your rent or your house payment every two weeks, Instead of once a month, you'll come out paying one month extra every year.	b	Huh uh.

sv	And if have you a thirty year note, it will take like seven or plus years off of your note.	aa	That's right.

b	yeah.	aa	And that's exactly right.

b	Yeah.	sd	Just because of exactly what you said,

b	Right.	sd	You're making one more months payment every year.

sd	it doesn't pay any interest,	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And when we bought this house, we looked at doing a fifteen year note, because it added more to the payment, but not significant amounts, you know,

b	Huh uh.	sv	it was a good payoff for being able to pay it off sooner.

sd	That's what we're looking at, fifteen or maybe twenty.	b	Yeah.

sd	We're not going to go longer than twenty.	b	Yeah.

sd	We're going to try to make our decision by July.	ba	Well, that's good, though.

sd	Well, we just started two or three weeks ago.	b	Yeah.

sd	just two or three houses a week at the most.	ba	Well, that's good, though.

aa	Yeah.	qy	Is it kind of a buyers market down there?

ny	Yeah.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	Credit union has nine percent interest.	ba	That's pretty excellent.

sd	we couldn't think of a better time to buy than now.	ba	That's good.

fc	But, anyway. Well, I can't think of a whole lot more to say.	fc	Well, I can't either.

fc	Me, too.	fc	I enjoyed talking to you.

fc	My wife, she went to, the school out there in Lubbock.	qy	In Lubbock?

b	Okay.	ad	Go ahead.

na	She went to school there.	qw	Well, what was her name?

sd	Cathy Walker.	nn	No.

b	Yeah.	fc	Well, good luck in your house hunting.

qy	y'all work at T I?	na	I do.

bh^m	You do.	ny	Yeah,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah.

sd	I work in the waiver .	bh	Do you really,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I used to work,

ba	wow.	sd	And then I have been in Human Resources for the last two years

sd	I'm, turning in a capital request right now,	bh	You are.

sv	That's funny that's where you're from.	qw*	What are trying to get? / * listen

sd	A machine that puts back grind tape on and off the waivers .	b	Oh.

sd^e	I'm sort of an acting process engineer.	bk	okay.

sd	but that's pretty much what I do.	bh^m	That's what you do,

ny	Yeah.	qy	And do you ?

na	Right	ba	Well good deal.

sv	but we needed that.	ba	Well, that's good.

b	Yeah	sv	He was very good for Lubbock when he came to, you know,

sd	that's what he said here.	ba	Good.

sd	He's gotten us into a linear flow that we've never been in before.	ba	Well, good.

sv	That's been a real big plus.	ba	Good.

sd	He's broadened, the devices that we're making, too, which has made us as lot more stable.	b	okay.

fc	Anyway, well, it was nice to talk to you.	fc	Well, you too,

fc	I can tell.	fc	well, I know they will,

fc	me, too.	fc	Well, have a good day.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qo	So what, So what gets you?	sd	Well, the thing I think that annoys me the most is, I have young children, a baby in the house

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that, that is probably the most aggravating .

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, it invades my time.

sd	and it's one solicitation call after another	sv	Your time is valuable,

qh	and, why do we let this happen.	sv	that's interesting.

qw	I mean if you could legislate something, what would you legislate?	sd	I really don't know.

sv	And the people making these calls would be obliged to compare their lists that they're going to call against this list of people who don't want to be called.	^2	Identify themselves, yeah.

sv	and those who don't want it, don't have to have it.	b	Right.

sv	Sort of like an unlisted number where you haven't gone to the trouble of enlisting yourself.	aa	Right,

sd	Except even unlisted numbers aren't safe now because they have these things just sort of dial through all the numbers. automatically	bh	is that right?

b	Right.	fe	boy.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I guess the next one is door to door solicitors.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't mind the children when they're selling things for school.

b	Yeah .	sv	but when it's adults selling a variety of things and especially when men arrive at about ten o'clock in the morning it makes you not feel particularly safe

b	Yes.	sv	and, it's annoying as well.

sv	and these people may in fact be just looking to find an unoccupied house to rob.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, I do feel like it's an invasion of my space.

sd@	What about these telephone callers. Sometimes they're door to door but usually they're telephone callers who want you to basically help them fill out a questionnaire. / * two utts	sd	I've never quite understood the purpose of that.

sd	basically it's a market survey	sd	Just a survey.

sv	but they never say who they're really working for or , you know, what what, what questions are, you know,	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I don't get too many of those.

b	Yeah .	sd	I've had just a few.

b	Yeah .	sd	generally someone's trying to sell me something

sd	well, and sometimes this is just the lead in to a sales pitch too.	aa	Right,

sv	Other times it's, you know, wasting your time to collect the data they want for their marketing purpose.	aa	Right.

sd	For which, if they would just pay me enough money I would be willing to consider.	b	Yeah.

sv	but a dollar isn't it,	b	Oh.

sv	and then you know, you go down a path	b	Right.

sv	and you don't know where it's going to end.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, And that seems to be something that should really be outlawed. Because it's subject to abuse	aa	Yeah,

sd	And the only thing that I basically spend my money on is just food	qw	What about tuition and rent?

sd	So, what happens is you pay six hundred dollars at the beginning or even before school starts.	b	Yeah.

sd	But the thing, also is that, you know, like if you want to go out like if you want to go to a restaurant or something, then I have to moderate that because it's like I can't go eat out at a nice restaurant and spend twenty dollars, you know, three times a week.	aa	No,

sd	but it's not what I want to spend it on, you know.	qy	are you working anywhere while you are going to school?

nn	No.	bk	Okay.

sd	Because, they don't allow me to work since, I'm a foreign student.	bk	okay.

sd	And so the government doesn't allow me to work.	b	Yeah,

aa	Uh huh.	bf	So, you got to make,

qy^g	Well, the thing is that, I basically know how much I have, right?	na	Right.

sd	I get all my money out of the teller.	b	Yeah.

sd	And besides see one of my biggest expenses is telephone calls since I have to call, you know, international.	qw	Where do you call to?

sd	Argentina.	br	Argentina?

aa	Yeah.	ba	Wow.

sd	one of the problems is that I spend too much money on phone bills.	aa	Yeah,

sd	they want me to call down there every so often.	b	Yeah.

^q	so I doesn't matter about the money because we need to hear from you.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	Because it is more expensive that way.	qo	What makes you , think so?

sd	basically the United States is the cheapest country to call out of.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, because it's considered a luxury in other countries.	bk	okay.

sd	Since it's his money anyway, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	I got money to pay that, too.	bk	Okay.

sd	so I won't have to, you know, rush a letter to him or something,	b	Yeah.

sd	because, he really wants me to concentrate on my studies.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm doing masters in computer science and computer engineering.	qo	And what do you think you'll do with that?

bf	With those degrees?	aa	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I can work here up to a year.	qo	And?

sd	And hopefully get a job after that.	qr	You want to get into some kind of manufacturing,

sd	computer communications and data transmissions.	bk	okay,

qy^g	and so, well, you have a family, right?	ny	Yeah,

qy	And does your wife work?	nn	No.

bk	okay.	sd	And she gets paid for that

b	Yeah.	sd	She is trying to start her own business where she does that full time. Alterations and sewing. Stuff for the public

b	Yeah.	sd	and, do that on a full time basis here in town.

qy	and you have a monthly budget?	no	Well, sort of.

b	Right.	sd	and we know what bills have to be paid,

qy^d	So, you don't have any problem in, overcharging on your credit card, and stuff like that.	na	sure.

b^r	yeah.	sv	You know, that's when everybody goes crazy on charging stuff.

sd	and you know, I don't wa , I don't like to give any at all	b	Yeah.

sd	because the thing is that, you know, it's like if I want something I'll ask somebody, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	And I said, I want a backpack.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	I told him if you want to give me a present for Christmas give me a backpack.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and I knew he needed an alarm clock.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I bought him an alarm clock.	ba@	That's great. * slash error Utilitarian.

aa	Right,	bf	Necessary things , no frivolous gifts.

sv	it's like,	aa	That's true,

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	that effects the budget especially around, Christmas time

aa	Yeah.	qw	What about when you have breaks like, Christmas or between sessions?

sd	and I spent around like, maybe, two hundred dollars.	ba	I expect so.

^q	Let's see how much money we have afterwards.	b	Right, .

sv	And if I felt like I spent way to much then, I won't go out, you know,	b	Right.

sd	I went skiing over the Carolina Mountains which aren't anything,	b	Huh.

sv	but you know, it was, I guess it was worth it,	ba	Sure it is,

sv	especially if you live on campus, and you don't have a car, you just go crazy.	aa	Yeah,

fc	Yeah.	fc	All right.

fc	Well, nice talking to you.	fc	Nice talking to you.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qw	what baseball team are you familiar with?	sd	Well, I'm only a little bit familiar with the Red Sox because I lived up in Boston for a while,

qy	no Texas Rangers?	sd	after that, if you asked me that I wouldn't have been able to tell you if that was football or baseball.

sv	I don't care if you're President.	b	Yeah,

qy^g	men know how to do that, right?	na	Right,

sv	that must have been hard on him because he's just a person	bh	really?

sd	because that's all you hear about is, if, you know, about Neal Bush I think is his name.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I never had to watch the news you know, not like some people hour and a half a day or anything.	b	Yeah,

sd	I saw that.	qy	Did you see that, where the guy asked him for proof of who he was,

^q	I want to see your driver's lic ,	aa	I know

sd	but I didn't see it	sd	It was so funny to see,

sd	I don't know, that much about it.	sd	Well, I can tell you, that the Mets opened, I think, two days ago,

b	Uh huh.	sd	because my brother was supposed to go to the opening game,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they won,

qy	Did they?	ny	But, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I don't even know if they're still New York Yankees, or New Jersey.

sv	That's so stupid that you all have two teams.	aa	Yeah.

sv	That's really stupid.	nd	Well, but it,

aa	I know.	sd	I think it's still the New York Yankees, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	I thought they were moving to New Jersey .

sd	The Texas Rangers, they lost, I think.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We got free tickets because one of the deacons at church, parks cars at The Mansion at Turtle Creek which is like one of the places and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	is this funny, as they're parking the cars the valet service.	b	Right .

sd	but anyway, someone gave an Iranian a tip of four Rangers tickets last year,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so he decided that some wealthy man tipped this Iranian, with baseball tickets,	^2	With baseball tickets.

sd	And so we were, walking up	b	Yeah .

sd	and so we ended up on first base right down there on the floor,	ba	Wow.

sd	and nobody brings two children in these seats, you know because,	^2	Because they're fancy seats and stuff.

sd	if they did hit a ball I would have been afraid it would have knocked my face in, you know.	sd	I know I'm always scared of that whenever I go to a game.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and if there's a game on, he's watching it.

bh	Really?	sd	and he's like glued at the T V.

sd	I'm glad my husband's not like that.	sd	I'm glad my husband's not like that either,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so my brother's wife and my husband and I went.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he describes it as, you sit there in a crowd,

ba	That's funny.	sd	so you sit there

^2	You miss the whole thing.	aa	yeah,

sd	I had a friend in college from Strasbourg,	b	Yeah,

sd	and she's lived there like, off and on for twenty years.	qy	is she still there?

qy	Saint Claude is that sound familiar?	ny	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	b	yeah,

bh	really?	sd	And it, it, it sits right at the limit,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I exactly where she is.

sd	and they have twelve children.	qy^m	Twelve children?

na^m	She has twelve children.	ba	my God, the poor woman.

sd	and, I mean, four or more children are thin,	qy	Were any of them twins?

o	I mean, I'm not kidding you.	sv	You probably can't afford to eat if you have more than two of them .

sd	and they're all eight and under, and nine and under,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so I'm real proud of them because they don't do that at all.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I always give her a hard time who's toothbrush did you really use this morning .	qw	But how do they afford to even have the kids,

sd	I mean, it was the biggest thing that any one in this company had ever done,	ba	Wow.

^q	But you've got five kids, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	there's a good book called WHAT THE BIBLE HAS TO SAY ABOUT CHILD TRAINING, by Richard Fugate	b	Uh huh.

sd	so they're not going to be a curse to you when they're thirteen.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But a lot women die or shop at Foley's	sd	I don't know what Foley's is .

sd	It's like a Macy's, kind of store,	b	Uh huh.

qy	You know what I mean?	ny	Yeah.

qy^g	but, it's kind of a different situation because you're probably living in an apartment, right?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	but your cousin could have a baseball team with twelve kids .

sd	I don't even think they have but two old enough to play yet.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, that's what they're called to do.	b	Uh huh.

b	uh huh.	sd	so, children wouldn't be very convenient for me right now.

aa	no.	qw	So what, how do you spend the time with your children?

sd	They're eight and eleven	bk	Okay,

sd	and they're into sports	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, as a matter of fact, that's what we're doing tonight .	qw	what are you doing?

sd	Baseball has started.	bk	okay.

sd^e	we start here at, five.	bk	Okay,

sd	it's coach pitch, until you get nine which my little boy will be nine in May.	bk	Okay.

sd	So he's going to be with, regular pitching	b	okay.

sd	and my eleven year old, of course, you know, is pitching.	b	Yeah.

sd	So there's always something.	b	Yeah,

sd	If we're not doing sports we go somewhere.	qy	do you go for long vacations, like a week or something when they have school off?

ny^r	yeah.	qr	In the summer or like in the Easter time, like around now?

sd^e	usually in the summer time.	qw	And where do you go?

sd	Different places every year.	qy	have you been out of the country?

nn	No .	bk	okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	when I lived in Washington, D C, I never went to the Washington Memorial,

sd	when they go, it's on business	b	Right.

sd	it's not really just to getting to sight see.	b	Right.

ba	I bet it is, too.	sd	But, the problem is , like first time I went out of here, they took me to Las Vegas

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that was the most boring place on earth.

sd	but when we go with our children we usually kind of stay close.	b	Yeah.

ny^r	yes.	bk	okay.

b	Oh.	sd@	that was fun. That was, / * slash error, two utts

b	Uh huh.	sd	a very, family thing, you know, made, like go skiing in Vermont or something.

b	Uh huh.	sd	that was a lot of fun.

b	Yes.	sd	But, what happens is we used to fight a lot,

sd	my husband also, we're involved in everything our kids does	b	Yeah.

sd	because, my dad died, you know, when I was less than a year old	b	Yeah.

sd	So I always thought, when I have kids, you know, I really want to be involved with them.	sd	Well, my dad, all he wanted to do was get money for us,

b	yes,	sd	and to me, you know, it's like, now I'm twenty two,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the way I was brought up,

b^m	Best friends, now.	sd	and it's very hard for me

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then suddenly he sees that he's getting old,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, you know, it's like, I can only express myself so much,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so, that's that whole thing that he'll say when, like, like

b	Yeah.	sd	and, I was brought up the same way,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but what he does is, when he gets home, he separates his work from his house.

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah.

sd	we have to take them, and, you know to do it.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	because you're saying, Well, I work full time too, you know.	b	Yeah,

aa^r	yeah.	sv	and you got to try to be with them as much as you can

b	uh huh	sv	and, and that would make any parent feel good and bad at the same time, you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	first of all you're coming to me

sd	and we knew time wise, and money wise, too	b	Yeah.

sv	it would not have been a good idea to had them then.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	and I told him, listen you could have had a lot of money if you would have only had two kids.

b	yeah.	sd(^q)	He says yeah,

sv	but you can't take this money with us, though	b	Yeah.

sd	that's how I keep looking at it.	sd	But, you know, like, I mean fou , four children is expensive, like, especially for me, which I'm paying out of state tuition.

b	Oh.	sd	And, you know, people say, you know, it's expensive to think it's college,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and well, it costs two hundred dollars for books,

aa	yeah.	sv	I mean, it's like, if you plan a year ahead, you can probably save up seven hundred dollars you know, one thousand four hundred dollars to send your child to college, you know.

qw	What are you learning to be?	br	excuse me?

qw	I mean, what are you wanting to do after you get out of college?	sd	Well, I'm doing computer engineering.

sd	my husband's into, computers.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	because since I'm an international student, they want to send me back to Argentina.

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, my dad wants me to go back.

qy^d	And you don't want to?	nn	No.

b^m	no.	nn	No,

b	Oh.	sd	Like you don't have any money to, get out.

b	Oh.	sd(^q)	and, I was thinking, you know, like, Oh my God, you know, I go back there,

b^m	Then you'll never leave.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Well maybe something will open up for you.	aa	Yeah,

fc	well I've enjoyed talking to you.	fc	All right,

fc	bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qy^t	They tell you what our topic was?	qy^g	I think golf, isn't it?

qw	How much of a golfer are you?	qy	Are you a hacker?

sd	I think I played better golf when I was fifteen, John, than I play right now.	sd	I know I, I know I did,

sd	I come from a family of golfers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, I was raised by a man, my stepfather who, with a two handicap, I mean, he, he, he could get down on his knees and hit the ball, I mean, further than most people could hit it.	b	Sure.

sd	they'd leave work and go to a golf course, or a little country club they belonged to back in Richmond, Virginia and just, play nine holes of golf.	b	Yeah.

sd	That was their deal,	ba	That's what it takes,

sd	sort of like the non golfer golfer of the family.	sd	Well, I went to,

bh	really?	ny	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I probably need to take some more lessons, more current and practice more often.

b	Yeah.	sv	Spend more time on the,

sd	it's a hunter's type affair	b	Uh huh.

sd	I live in the Dallas area, but I go down to Austin and go with my good customer and friend of mine	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we always buy this weekend at a country club in the hill country. You know, at, Horseshoe Bay.	b	yeah.

sd	and, course, believe it or not by the end of the third day and the end of the, third course, my score has gone from, you know, a hundred and twenty down to about a hundred and five.	aa	yeah,

sd	so that makes a lot of difference to me.	aa	Yeah,

aa	You bet.	sd	my control is a little bit better there.

sd	when I do swing it's an easier swing	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I do, actually, hit the ball better.	b	Uh huh.

sd	off the tee.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's why I need my driving lessons.	sd	Well, you know, I put mine back in my bag this year, too,

ba	That helps.	sd	I had a lot more control on it,

sd	so I get a pretty good little drive	b	Uh huh.

sv	if you'll take lessons, the first thing they put in your hand is an iron.	aa	yeah,

sv	but I think the key is you need to play more often than I play.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	I think there is less frustration factor there, too,

ba	makes good sense.	sd	the one iron is something I've been thinking because my driver's gone so badly lately that I should pick one up and try to start.

b	yeah.	sd	but, and his accuracy is what's so startling with it.

sd	if I get off the tee box and I've, you know, you know, anything from a hundred fifty to two hundred yard drive through a straight, I just want to get down and kiss the ground, you know .	bf	And get away without embarrassing yourself,

qo	So, how you like New Jersey?	sv	it's pretty good, you know.

qy	I don't know what part of New Jersey you're in, but I guess it's, fairly industrial?	ny	Yeah,

b	Right, uh huh.	sd	but I'm about, thirty miles west of there

b	Right.	sd	you know, you go even a few miles out and you got, farms and everything

sv	but it seems that automobiles would probably do more than their fair share of that.	aa	definitely.

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, there are a large number of them on the road.

sv	so you get a lot of people out there without E T R, emission control systems on their cars and things like that.	sv	even where you do have the inspections, you know, the inspection is once a year.

b	Yeah,	sv	You get the car that's in the accident

b	Sure.	sv	and guy keeps driving along for long period of time after that.

sd	They're actually coming out with the first prototypes in California.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	natural gas powered rather than, gasoline.

sv	and I know it's not due to, to gasoline or to, you know, carbon monoxide so much as the C F C s	sd	it is coming from cars, though.

sv	I think that's a contributor definitely.	sd	I mean, the, car air conditioners is one of the major leaking sources of, the, freon. Which is one of the major chlorofar , fluorocarbons.

ad	go ahead.	ar	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so they're on the different part of the cycle of the U S.

sd	And that's one of the arguments that the Third World countries have been using is, that basically they don't want to have to pay for our mistakes if that makes any sense.	sd	or they want the right to make the same mistakes themselves to bootstrap them up to where we got to.

sd	and it's increasing even as near the Equator as like Florida and Cuba and those places.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's , not a real good one actually.	aa	No.

qy	have you been in big cities a long time?	na	I've mostly been in the east coast,

sv	those are actually areas that are hit pretty hard, I would think.	sd	Well, not as hard as some places out west because you don't get the, major pollution sources as you do out in Denver with the inversion and Los Angeles and rest of California which is just terrible it sounds.

sd	Denver's that real good e , that real good, example of sitting in a valley, kind of like Mexico City does, I guess.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Mexico City is historically been one of the worst in the world for that.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, it definitely it's not at a level comparable to Los Angeles or Denver	b	Yeah,

sd	And there's not that much in terms of public transportation down there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You say you're from Atlanta.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I guess it is a concern of mine, you know, for my own safety.

sd	I live in Atlanta also.	ba	Well that's right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think it seems that there's certain areas where, the crime is focused 

qw	Well what do you think can be done about the crime in the city?	sv	Well, I think what's been happening over the last several years it seems they've been beefing up the police patrols, trying to put more guys, more cops, higher visibility,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and probably, they need to try to increase community involvement, that sort of thing, I think .

aap	I probably agree with that.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they've got to do more than just having cops there.

qy	so, well do you think Atlanta's as bad as most other cities?	na	I'd say it's probably in the top ten in terms of crime.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Probably not as bad as Detroit.

sv	I don't think it's as bad as L A either.	aa	No.

sv	I don't think we have as much of the gang problem as a lot of the other cities have.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's that obvious.

sv	I came to the conclusion also that, you know, if you are walking in a downtown area, you know, where there's a lot of crime, a lot of that's going to just keeping your senses about you and trying not to look like a victim, you know.	aa	Yeah,

sv	You know, you know, walk with, you know, with just walk in a confidently,	^2	With a big stick

sv	and, you know, don't be looking around like you've never been there before and you have no idea where you are.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	just try to keep yourself out of a bad situation

b	Uh huh.	sv	there are times when you can't avoid all that

qy	have you ever, have you ever been mugged in Atlanta?	nn	no.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but that was in a more of a setting where there was a number of people around,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and kind of a couple of people, they just took it from me without me knowing really and kind of passed it off, so I didn't know who had it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've had that happen,

sd	I've been pretty lucky about getting mugged.	b	yeah.

sd	and that's been about the only, you know, you know, potentially violent crime that I've seen in Atlanta.	ba	Really,

sd	And that was just a guy running out of a store that he just robbed.	b	Uh huh.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah.

qr	or,	nn	no,

ba	Really.	sd	It's actually Cobb County,

aa	yeah.	sd	and, there's a lot of car thefts in that area.

sd	and, you know, about half the time the A P D seems to recover them, you know in various states of disrepair . Up on blocks.	b	Right.

sd	and when he got it back his, dashboard was sitting in the front seat .	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I got it back.

sv	Well, you're probably luckier than.	aa	Yeah,

qr	or was that all there was, body.	na	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you can start it up, basically pretty easily.

qw	So how do you know this much about, stealing cars?	sd	Well, after I found mine I had this,

qy	You have any pets?	br^m	Do I have pets?

ny	Yeah.	ny	Yes,

qw	what kind?	sd	I have a Schnauzer

qr	Is it a miniature or a standard Schnauzer?	sd	it's a miniature.

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, the Schnauzer I'm watching for one of, the managers where I work

b	Yeah.	sv	They just are fascinated.

b	yeah.	sd	So she doesn't know that this is a cat yet.

sv	They say ,	sd	And they get along real good.

qw	what was the other dog you had?	sd	It's a sheltie.

b^m	a sheltie.	sd	She's real sweet little dog.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, the Schnauzers are a little aggressive.

sv	They can be nippy.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They're good temperament.	sv^r	They're a good temperament

sv	They put up with a lot.	sv	and they just,

sv	Schnauzers, in particular probably.	aa	Well, yeah,

b	yeah.	sv	they're kind of,

sv	it seems the smaller the are, the worse off they are .	aa	Yeah,

sv	they're bred down so much.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They aren't the best pets.	sd	I'd, I really don't know what the best pet is.

b	Yeah.	sv	I guess it's up to the individual and how they relate to their animal.

sv	I mean, some people seem fairly well suited for for, miniature poodles and such.	b@	* slash error And bull dogs .

sv	they're actually very friendly dogs.	bh	Are they really?

sd	and they are just really nice, really friendly, kind of like medium intelligence.	qw	Well, how do they become s ,

sd	Well, because some people, want to train them as,	bf	they train them to be that way, then.

aa	Yeah.	bk	okay.

sd	You really can't get a pit bull from birth that's that way.	bk	okay.

sd	it takes a lot of training and a lot of abuse to get a dog to really respond.	ba	dear,

aa	Right.	ba	dear.

sd	They are very determined critters	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they aren't that big. And, just really friendly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I was overwhelmed.	bf	well, I suppose you were surprised.

b	Yeah.	sd	After the reputation that, you know

b	Yeah,	sd	they have quite an, notable reputation as far as, you know,

sd	They picked up a lot of bad press lately.	aa	Yeah,

b	Well, yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, any, any pet's can, can be bad if you train it to be that way.	sv(^q)	they must have just targeted that breed and said, boy, we're going ,

sd	in my hometown, they just outlawed ferrets because they had one incident of a ferret, attacking a child in a house.	b	okay.

sd	the ferret is used to running the house and was kind of wild	b	Uh huh.

sd	now it's like ferrets are outlawed in the town.	qy	did it attack the child, then?

sd^e	it bit him.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I think it was probably an individual ferret thing, because it was a fairly wild ferret.	sv	Well, the the people that owned him should have been on the lookout for that.

b	Yeah,	b@	* slash error Sure,

sd	They didn't.	aa	yeah.

sv	It's too bad it happened, though.	aa	Yeah,

sd	but, that's how I'm staying up.	sd	I either watch the news

qy	do you like how it's presented on the news?	nn	no,

bf	So, it makes you feel like they're, wanting you to take their opinion.	aa	Right.

qy^g	and it's kind of distressing, isn't it?	ny	Yeah.

sv	And I've noticed that they do it just with subtle little words, usually, just that sway the whole, report you know, by just a couple of words.	sd	Well, when I was in school, I was a communications major,

qy	Were you looking into becoming a reporter	na	I was,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I, went with the Department of State Treasurer in retirement disability,

ba	I bet that's a interesting job.	aa	Yeah.

sd	It's going to cost them seven point five billion after tax charge in ninety three, to account for that.	ba	It's a lot of money.

sd	And it'll drop their earnings by a hundred million a year forever more.	ba	It's a lot of money.

qy	do you read the WALL STREET JOURNAL?	nn	No,

qo	Can you think of anything that could be done to make our news media more accurate and objective?	sv	I think they need to go into a little bit more depth, before they would just report, like somebody wants to make a statement or something like that,

sv	so they have the big story.	aa	well, yeah

qy	are you into the Cowboys?	nn	God, no .

qy	yeah?	ny	Yeah.

ba	Well, that that's all right.	sd	That's my favorite team,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I hope they can do better.

sd	I guess I'm kind of a fair weather fan in a lot of respects.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I kind of like them.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	they're not my favorite totally.

sd	To be honest with you, I probably watch, college a little bit more than I do pro.	qy	Really?

sd	Quite a bit.	b	Yeah.

bh	Is it?	sv	it's more high tech,

am	That could be.	sv	when you're getting paid millions to do it, I think they take it to another level.

b	Yeah.	sv	But I can see it's more, you know, grunted out, run the ball type.

sv	You probably wouldn't like my favorite team in college then.	qw	whose that?

sd^e	I root for Nebraska quite a bit.	b^m	Nebraska .

aa	Ye , .	b	Yeah.

sd	to be honest with you, I find that too much running gets pretty boring as well	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	you know, it gets kind of monotonous.

sv	A lot of like the big eight teams that used to run so much. I think they're starting to realize that they just can't compete anymore.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	that's getting ready to start up, right?	na	Right.

qy	Have you followed that very much	ng	not really.

b	Yeah.	sv	It's like if we tried to start something to take over major league baseball.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, it, it can be, it can take over part of it.

sv	It can take over a small market share	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	it's never going to reach that standard

sd	But, when in reality, it's really Americans playing somewhere else you know .	aa	Yeah,

sd	I've never really played it	bh	Yeah?

sd	I've like to watch, rugby every now and then.	b	Yeah

h	whatever you want to call it there.	b	Yeah.

sv	there's definitely an element of stupidity in there somewhere .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah	sv	Rugby is definitely big in college

aa	Yeah.	b	So, yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'll give it that.

qy	You've played it then?	sv	But, you know, I don't think rugby will ever be professional

sv	Not, at least not in this country anyway.	aa	No.

aa	It is.	h	But, I don't know.

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	I don't.	sd	it's a small town.

sd	To tell you the truth, I'm not even really from here.	bf	You just live there now.

sd	I'm up here for a year on an internship.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I actually live in Florida.	b^m	Live in Florida.

aa	Yeah.	sd	Like the Seahawks .

qy^g	Well, you know, {E I . I mean, } who who the heck is going to root for Tampa Bay, right ?	sd	Hey, I I've only been to Philadelphia twice

h	but I don't know.	b	Yeah,

ad	Go ahead .	qr	have you every been tested for a new job or anything?

sd^m	They can if they choose to.	b	okay.

qy	well have you had any experience with it at all?	ng	not really

qo	So what do you think about that?	sv	I don't think they're very accurate

sv@	and they may not tell you the reason why. * slash error Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sv	Or this person never use any drugs.	sv	I thought you got called back if you tested positive, for more tests.

sd	I don't know.	qy	do you know how wrong they are?

sv	and I think that a person deserves a second chance with it or something because most things will stay in your system for a long time.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I was taking Entex. And my doctor gave me a prescription for it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and if they would just say this person's drug test is positive we won't hire them you know. Then you could lose out on a job when really you didn't do anything.	b	Yeah.

h	So I don't know.	sv	And I'm not so sure they are that needed.

sd	because they say they can spot check.	sv	if you're using it while at a job, I can see a problem.

b	Yeah.	sv	But the occasional person, then like, it's almost an infringement of your privacy.

sv	You know, as a health professional, I wouldn't want somebody to take care of me that was using drugs.	b	Yeah.

sv	So you know, I guess you have to have trust some place along the way.	b	Yeah.

sv	You can't go around testing everybody for everything.	b	Yeah .

sv	I can see where it could become a problem.	sv	And it's like, it seems like now they have tests

ba@	wow! But * two utts maybe you shouldn't be held responsible for something you did several years ago. / * sv	aa	I know.

sv	and I don't think they should really have to pay for that forever.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	but you can't say it was wrong at the time.

qw	Well, what kind of vacations do you like to take? .	sd	Well, we've been fortunate enough to take a couple of trips over to Europe

b	Uh huh.	sd	We've really enjoyed them.

qw	Where have you gone there?	sd	We've gone to, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Ireland and England.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We've been to Germany twice.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I guess my favorite is probably Switzerland and Ireland.

sd	well, I've been over there too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	mostly Germany and France.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I lived in France for a year and a half	ba	how neat.

sd	but, once when I had a chance in France to go on vacation instead of travelling around France I went to Germany	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I just like it there.	ba	that's neat.

sd	but, Austria, I found really pretty and Switzerland,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I anything in the mountains over there I just love.	ba	how neat.

sd	I lived in Africa, actually,	qy^d	You lived in Africa?

ny	Yeah.	ba	my goodness .

aa	Yeah.	ba	Wow.

sd	and or unless you fly from Nairobi, you have to fly through, Europe on your way home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I really liked it there too.	sv	It's so expensive over there .

sv	That's the one thing.	aa	It really is.

sd	actually now you can get some really good deals flying over,	b	Yeah.

sd	once you're there you still have to spend money . Unless you know people, you know .	aa	I know,

sv	That helps a lot.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, I'd like to go to Hawaii some time,

b	Yeah.	sd	we've at least gone to the Grand Canyon and Niagara Falls.

b	Yeah.	sd	Feel like we've accomplished a little bit here.

sd	most of my vacationing in the U S has been on the West Coast	b	Uh huh.

sd	or this summer I went to Colorado	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I'd love to go to the East Coast, during the Fall.	sd	I've always wanted to go there.

b	Yeah.	sd	we made a trip up the East Coast.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it really is pretty.

b	Uh huh.	sd	both coasts are really pretty

b	Yeah.	sd	but, I love the Carolinas.

sd	I haven't been anywhere on the East Coast.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think Tennessee has been the furthest east I've been.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	ad	Well, you'll just have to plan a vacation some time and go over there.

am	I guess so.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I just love going over to Europe because their way of life is just so different than ours.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, we're so fast paced here,

b	Yeah.	sv	they're so leisurely over there

b	Yeah.	sv	and it's kind of nice to have that.

qr	like, would you go over and spend a lot of time in one place, or travel to whole bunch of different places in one week?	sd	Well, usually a bunch of different places.

sv	mainly probably because you want to see everything.	aa	Right,

aa	I know.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	qo	How did you like Africa?

sd	I was working in Cameroon, Africa	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, they're not used to having tourists there,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I liked it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The people there are just very friendly	qw	What type of work?

sd	I was working with an organization that does Bible translation.	bk	okay.

sd	So I was doing linguistic work actually, travelling around, finding out about languages, and what they call survey work.	b	uh huh.

sd	Find out where the languages are.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I travelled a lot around the country and met a lot of people.	b	Yeah.

sd	I enjoyed it.	sd	I've always, I've talked to people who have been to Africa,

b	Yeah.	sv	but I've always thought it would be neat to go on a safari over there.

sd	and then she went over to Nairobi and took a safari around you know, close to Nairobi in Kenya.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, she'd always dreamed of doing that too.	b	Yeah,

sv	It sounds like we've been to some of the same places.	aa	Yeah,

qy	I guess by what you said you don't feel you're, privacy has been invaded anytime recently?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's the only thing that bothers me.

b	Right.	qy	do you feel that yours is invaded?

sd	because, you know, if we don't want that to happen all we have to do is just call the phone company and say, look, you know, I want my name unlisted or want my, you know,	ar	but that doesn't work.

qy	It doesn't?	nn	no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, you enter a sweepstake in the local department store for a shopping spree or something,

b	Oh.	sd	or like the newspapers, they just dial randomly and stuff.

b	Uh huh.	^q	you call me one more time, I'm going to stop subscribing .

b	Uh huh.	sd	but the, Orlando paper, yeah, they refused to take it off of the lists

sd	you know, they're a department store.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, they had this bill, that she had bought such and such amount of merchandise, over two hundred dollars worth of merchandise.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the date that she supposedly made this purchase, she was in Denver with me for Thanksgiving.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and apparently what had happened is someone used her social security number.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they use Joe Blow's social security number, and can, potentially ruin someone's credit.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and since it wasn't shipped to her address, she could prove, you know, that it wasn't her.

b	Yeah.	sd	they should be able to provide you a copy with that signature

b	Yeah.	qy	But if the pers , has, you know, her social security number, I'd be real concerned that she's not, blacklist on, what is it, it's Telecredit or something?

ny	Yeah.	sd	because she won't be able to cash checks because most places verify through there.

qw	So, how is the weather out there?	sd	it's really cold

bh	really?	sd	You have, breaking records for coldness and all that kind of stuff.

sd	The usual, I think.	b	Oh.

sd	It's good.	b	Yeah,

qw	What part?	sd	Provo.

bk	Okay.	aa	Yeah.

qy	It's more humid in Utah than there?	ny	Uh huh.

qrr	Or there?	sd	It's more humid in Iowa than Utah.

aa	Right.	b	Yeah.

bk	Okay.	sd	And it seems like when the winds blow, it goes right through you.

sd	because when it's cold, it's really cold.	b	Yeah,

br	What's that?	sd^r	I don't think there is any mountains to stop the wind.

sv	So the humidity is I think what does it .	aa	Yeah,

sd	when it would snow in Texas I mean we'd be really cold	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you don't you don't feel super cold.	aa	Yeah,

sv	It was weird.	b	Yeah.

qrr	Or did you,	sd	I graduated in nineteen eighty seven.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

qy	So you just barely moved away?	ny	Uh huh .

qy	Do you like it out there?	sd	We miss the mountains.

b	Yeah.	sd	Because it's, like, really flat here .

qy	So you just moved away a year ago?	na	in August.

ba	Wow, really recent.	aa	Yeah.

ba	warm .	qw	So, what's the temperature up today over there?

sd	like, it's probably fifty, fifty five, maybe.	bh	really?

sd	it's not that cold, really.	sd	And whenever I remembered the weather reports in Utah, I never really remember them talking too much about wind chill.

b	Yeah.	sd	But they talk about wind chill here all the time.

sd	that's a big deal in Texas, too.	sd	They said it could be, like, six degrees out and, like, negative forty one wind chill.

qy	So, did you used to ski when you were out here?	br	What's that?

qy	Did you used to ski when you were in Utah?	no	I've only skied in Utah once.

bh	really?	sd	I only skied once my whole life .

sd^e	but I like to when I get a chance.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Just saving my money for Christmas things and that.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	this is actually my third year.	qy	And you're going to school there?

ny	Uh huh.	b	Oh.

ny	Yep.	qy	At U of U,

sd^e	at B Y U.	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	b	Oh.

sd	So, but, I'll be here a long time , at this rate.	qw	What's your major?

sd	but I'm in the process of changing it right now.	b	Uh huh,

sd	Because it's really, really competitive at B Y U.	b	Yeah.

sd	You have to have like a three seven to get in	aa	That's true.

sd	so I think I better get into something that I can enjoy the process of going to school	b	Uh huh.

qr	or,	sd	education.

qw	In,	sd	elementary and special ed.

qy	Really?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	That what my sister did.	bh	really?

sd	I think she graduated around then, too, though, eighty seven probably,	b	Yeah,

sd	Because they, since, stopped that program. I mean, where you can where you can get it double pretty easily.	bh	have they?

qy	are you presently looking, for a used car?	ng	Well, as a matter of fact, I just bought one .

b^m	Just bought one.	sd	just within the last three weeks.

qw	what did you get?	sd	I got a Lexus L S four hundred. Which is made by Toyota.

bf	Lexus is a Toyota subbrand.	aa	Yeah.

sd	because they're talking like it was an American built car.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	It's, marketed, of course, its own dealerships.

b	Yeah.	sd	Usually, or somebody that's maybe got a Cadillac or Lincoln and Lexus dealership,

b	Yeah.	sd	sometimes they do that,

b	Yeah.	sd	but I've really liked it.

sv	but the particular seems to be the quiet ride.	aa	It really is.

b	Yeah.	sd	It's got a C D player in it,

qy^g	that wasn't a standard, feature, was it?	ny	Uh huh.

bk	Okay.	sd^e	But there is not very many options on that car.

b	Yeah,	sd	some of the tracking control things and skidding control things for up north. The C D and the premium sound system.

qy	you mean the antilock brake system?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	it's not just antilock brake.

sv	this is probably suspension tied into the brakes.	aa	Yeah.

fe	shoot	sv	Mississippi probably doesn't, Mississippi probably doesn't have to worry too much .

sd	snow doesn't happen very often.	sv(^q)	If it does, people go, what's this stuff.

sd	We got a pretty fair amount of snow.	bk	Oh,

sd	and it was amazing how a few inches of snow would turn normally sane, manly, adult men into playful little children.	aa	I know.

sd	But, while they were there they set back , drank about four or five cups of coffee apiece and made snowmen on the hoods of their vehicles threw snowballs all over the place, had themselves a ball for about an hour .	ba	no.

b	Yeah.	sd	Although most of them are ordered them with it,

b	Yeah.	sd	I did not get the traction control which also, when you take the traction control , and the suspension thing it also puts heaters in the front seats, too.

ba	Oh,	sv	You go out and get in that real cold car

bf	It's a package deal.	sv	and you turn that on,

b	Yeah.	sd	And those two are sold together

ba	Ouch.	sd	so I opted not for that

sd	I worked for Lincoln,	sd	So the only thing I had to decide on was whether I wanted a C D or not in the stereo system

sd	Little Mercury Tracer	b	Yeah,

sd	imagine, or not, they make a luxury Mercury Tracer.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, I'm leasing the Lexus.

b	Yeah.	sd	I just run it through my business,

b	Uh huh.	sd*	the Lincoln ride is certainly good, too, but this Lexus is nothing like I have ever been in before. / * one or two utt?

b^2	Like sitting in your living room.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Adjustable?	na	Adjustable, power

b	Yeah .	sd	and just kind of brings that support up in the sma ,

qy	Have you tried much with it?	sd	Well, with an engineering, degree, of course, it's a whole lot easier.

b	uh huh.	aa	yeah,

aa	Yes.	sd	it just absolutely makes perfectly good sense to me because it's all decimal.

b	Yes.	sv	And it's so easy to convert from one set of units to another.

sv	the secret seeming to me to be to not bother ever converting inches to centimeters and, pounds to kilograms,	aa	Right.

sv(^q)	and, I think that's what hung people up the most is they went now wait a minute, an inch is two point fifty four centimeters,	b	Right.

^q	how on earth am I every going to do the math? / * spelling	b	Right.

sd	but I'm perfectly comfortable using either.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's hard to take it seriously.	b	yeah.

^q	the other one must be for someone else.	aa	That's right.

sd	and we inherited this mess from them	aa	That's right,

sv	and you sort of have to force people to change since they don't want to .	sv	is much more necessary for them than for us.

sd	and America does have a long history of sort of doing things our own way rather than adopting, you know, some other model.	sd	There's an expression for that,

sd	and then in parenthesis it said four hundred fifty four point six grams .	b	Right,

sd(^q)	every time I see something like that I think, well, that's an anti metric argument.	b	Yeah.

qy	You don't?	nn	No.

^q	at midnight, tonight we all switch over or anything.	qy	Did they switch?

sd	That's an example of something you can't do gradually.	aa	Well that's true.

sd	A quantum leap from left to right hand drive .	ba	Interesting.

sd	that was something that had to be done quickly, you know, because of external circumstances,	aa	yes.

sd	but they decided to do it to make themselves in sync with the rest of Europe, or the rest of continental Europe	b	Yeah.

sv	and, you know. But that must have been tremendously difficult to orchestrate.	b	Yeah.

sd	and after all, the whole reason to go over to metric is to have round numbers, so they don't deal with thirty seconds of an inch	aa	Exactly,

sv	Really, I think.	sd	Well, we do have the two liter soda pop bottles.

sd	I don't drink soda pop,	b	Yeah.

sd	and if you start expressing one liters and one kilograms and then the pounds come in the, you know, the odd numbers, you know, two point two pounds or something. I think people will start getting a sense of, gee the metric is the sensible one.	aa	Right.

fc	I enjoyed talking with you too.	fc	Okay,

qo	what kind of hobbies do you have Lori?	sd	I guess, I like to play golf.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I also like to plant flowers and do some gardening and do arts and crafts.

qw	Where do you play golf in this area?	sd	Well, we live, pretty close, to the Mesquite Golf Course.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, we will play either out there or at Firewheel.

qr	do you ride or do you pull a cart when you play golf?	sd	both .

b	Oh.	sd	Not at the same time.

sd(^q)	I was going to say, that could be difficult .	sd	No, sometimes we ride

b	Uh huh.	sd	I find that when I ride in a cart, I play better

sv	I think that might be true.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't like pulling a cart on Firewell golf course because they want you to pull the cart on the path.	aa	I know,

sd	That is the reason, I don't play over there.	b	Yeah.

sd	I like the course, but I don't play over there because, they don't, you know don't allow you to pull a cart.	b	Right.

sv	And, I don't think a cart damages the turf.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that is why we you know play over there

sd	I live, very close to the Firewheel Golf Course.	bh	do you?

sd	Right up there near the golf course.	bk	Okay,

sd	Well, in the last two years, I have not played very much golf because I am involved in Boy Scouts.	bk	okay.

sd	So, I have, I have children Boy Scout age.	qy^d	You must have a son.

sd	and, so I am very active in Boy Scouts	bk	okay.

sd	so I would have to say that camping and hiking and canoeing and Boy Scouts is my hobby.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it is probably going to be six to eight years before they go to college.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Lessons are expensive though.	aa	yeah.

sd	I only took lessons for golf when I was in college.	b	Uh huh.

sd	as a course for P E you know so I could graduate.	b	Right,

sd	and that was kind of a group scenario and not individual.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Besides that, I just, try to make the club hit the ball.	aa	Right.

sd	I don't want to play strike out, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, I have some good shots and some bad shots.	b	Oh yeah.

qy	Do you have, special flowers?	no	Well flower gardens.

sd	My wife had, just put in a bunch of, I want to say, they are pansies.	b	Uh huh.

sd	She put them in like two months ago cause they are winter plants.	b	Right.

sv	we thought even with all the cold weather weather we have had they have been blooming just fine.	sd	they do great.

sd	That is when she did, I think.	b	Yeah,

qy	Will they make it through the summer sun?	nn	No,

ba	Well, that is good.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	and hobbies in our spare time is what we've been selected to discuss today.	sd	Well, the hobbies that I pursue in my spare time, are crafts

b	Oh .	sd	And I enjoy it,

bh	really?	qo	How about yourself?

sd	so I never have time to deal with them.	bh	Really?

sd	I like photography a lot,	b	yeah,

sd	so I'll take a lot of pictures of her, you know, and spoil them,	ba	that's great,

sv	if I could make it on the road, I'd like to play on like a bluegrass band or something,	ba	that sounds nice.

sd	I've done it before when I was in high school and college, and thoroughly enjoyed it,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but that's the way life is, I guess.	bf	That's the hard part, right?

aa	Exactly.	sv	If you can do things together, that really helps a lot.

sd	and, and we did aerobics together for about a month and a half	ba	that's good, too.

sd	and that went over real well,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, that's about it there.	ba	it's good

aa	yeah.	sd	We do that too,

ba	that's great.	b	Yeah.

ba	That's great.	sd	And we like movies,

sd	so we've been out twice in this year so far. By ourselves without the child	b	Uh huh.

sv	so it's kind of, become an issue you could say.	b	Sure.

sd	I like, messing around in your house building things, and, you know, putting cabinets up, and, those kind of things,	aa	yeah,

aa	It's really kind of fun.	aa	It is.

sv	Especially if your spouse will get in there with you and get dirty,	aa	Yeah,

ba	Sounds like it.	aa	Yeah.

qy	Do you like to cook?	ny	Yes,

sd	I love to cook, too,	sd	Italian food .

bh	really?	qy	Yeah,

sd	I like to cook and eat and, to have, mainly, I guess, I get to	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)*	amount of people eat, * listen and then say, man this is really good,	b	Uh huh.

sd	work in the garden, work around the yard, of course,	qy	Do you do barbecues?

sd	smoke them an ,	qy	Well, smoking and all that stuff?

sd^e	all that hoedown stuff.	b	Yeah,

sd	All that stuff that's bad for you.	sd	I lived in Abilene for a little while, and, worked in the Abilene plant,

b	yeah.	sd	and we used to go to Joe Allen's Barbecue,

b	yeah.	sv	Really great,

sv	That's, only way to do it.	sv	they have some nice stuff down there.

sv	there's pluses to everything,	b	yeah.

sd	I play a lot of racquetball.	sd	I did horseback riding, too,

sv	sounds like you,	sd	and I was disappointed when I went to Texas.

br	Horses?	aa	Yes .

sv	you have to look real hard to see a lot of things besides concrete,	aa	I know,

sv	and that's about it down here,	b	Uh huh.

sv	Well, sounds like you have a lot of nice hobbies there.	b	Yeah,

sv	I know it's probably late for you,	b	Okay.

fc	I enjoyed speaking with you	fc	Me too.

fc	have a good weekend.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye, now.

qo	So, do you have any hobbies?	sd	Well, right at the present time nothing real special.

b	Yeah,	sd	I don't have any real serious,

sd	I'm an avid gardener,	ba	okay.

sd^t	they were like suggesting, like handcraft things which,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I, I think anything that you enjoy,	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, it could be working on cars could be your hobby really.	aa	Really

sd(^q)	I says, you go pay to have someone do it.	b	Yeah .

^q	Because it always seems it goes wrong when you try to do something.	qy^g	I guess as far north as you are if you like gardening, you've still got a couple months to go, haven't you?

sd^e	well, right now we, start our seeds inside.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We'll start them inside	qr^d	In cold frames or whatever the,

sd^e	well, we usually start them right in the house.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you can leave them outside.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You might put them in the ground just the first week of June	b	Yeah.

sd	but we can put potatoes in the ground in the middle of May.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	and I remember that it was on into May before it really started warming up,

sd	well, we live really close to Lake Champlain, which is in the Champlain Valley,	b	yeah.

sd	so we're about two weeks ahead of everyone else out on the outskirts	bk	Okay,

ny	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, his crop gets killed.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	from Plattsburgh Air Force Base.	b	Yeah,

sd	it's, depressed economically.	b	really,

sd	I mean, I'm a technician.	b	Yeah.

sv	When they start getting rid of technicians,	b	Yeah,

sd	Well, I interviewed with them.	bh	yeah?

sd	Even though my, mother's people are from Georgia.	b	Oh,

b	Yeah.	b	yeah.

ad^t	Well, I guess we have to get back to hobbies since,	aa	Yeah,

sd	my sister grows flowers that you can dry,	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we made some really nice Christmas wreaths with, dried red flowers and dried white flowers and, eucalyptus.	b	yeah.

qy	you know what eucalyptus is?	ny	Yeah,

aa	Yeah,	sd	It's got a kind of a peculiar smell to it

sv	but it is kind of a nice smell after a while.	aa	Yeah,

sd	in the last five years I've used so much of it that,	b	Yeah.

sd^e	it is.	sd	Maybe that's why they're so slow.

sv	it looks really potent stuff.	b	Yeah

sd	but I, I'm so, timid when it comes to starting a business.	b	Yeah,

sv	it is, especially with being in on the creative aspect and the crafty end.	b	Yeah,

sd	and his, son built him a garage and got him some, I don't know what the equipment's called, but planers and things and set him up,	b	Uh huh,

sd	He gets right into it	sd	There was a program on T V down here on the educational channel here a while back about a lot of little companies of one and two guys, you know, up there,

sd	it's a, it's a really, good thing because it's keeping him sane,	b	So, yeah,

sd	plus it's keeping his marriage ,	b	Yeah.

sd	but he's getting to the point where he needed an extra boost, to do something like that.	b	Yeah.

sd	He d , He dowels everything.	ba	That would be really t , you know,

sd	I don't see too much scrap around.	b	Yeah,

ba	God , I'm envious .	sd	so, and, so as far as, you know, planting outdoor stuff, matter of fact, tonight I was planting some trees out back tonight,

qy	Is it going to be, Is it going to be really dry?	sd	Almost hated to come, you know.

sd	so the cold weather can kill them	b	Yeah,

sd	I guess they say you can plant them in the spring or the fall, all .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	but, down here, well, it's done both ways.

sd	and, when you have time to do it .	b	Yeah.

sd	She gets right into it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They landscape their whole house with flower gardens.	b	Yeah .

sd	She's got like, just a small patch of lawn and just flowers and mulch tree bark all over her lawn .	b	Yeah.

 %	It gets, ya ,	sd	And June, July, August are, you know,

qrr	or is it,	no	we're in a relatively new area.

qy	So you don't have a lot of tree coverage?	ng	So we don't have,

sd	See, my, well, my grandmother passed away, but where aunts are they have these huge pecan trees,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they just shade everything.	qw	Now where is this?

sd	it's in Georgia.	b^m	In Georgia,

sv	but when I think of Texas, I think of nothing but, no trees and just grass .	o	Well, I tell you what,

b	Yeah.	sd	The two cities are very identical,

qy	So it's that dry heat?	nn	well, no,

qy	wasn't it Houston's humid?	na	Houston is awful .

b	Yeah.	na	Houston is really humid.

qo	How would you feel about sending an elderly family member to a nursing home?	sd	Well, I don't feel very good about it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	He actually died a few months after that,

qw	And what type of recommendations did you have when you decided where to place him?	sd	he wanted to get into a Mennonite nursing home which is very popular and hard to get into and had like a ten year waiting list

ba	my.	aa	right,

aa	Right.	qo	what do you think?

sd	She has leukemia	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the rest of her family and her regular doctors and everybody she trusted and knew was in Dayton, and were several thousand miles away	b	Yeah.

sd	She had her own little room and didn't have to share it with anyone and could bring in her own chair and T V set	b	Yeah

sd	so in this facility they can do it right there from her own room	b	Okay.

sd	But when it got to the point I was spending more time at the hospital with her,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I've got little children here who needed me here	aa@	Right, so that, / * slash error. two utts

sd	she needed somebody to watch her twenty four hours a day.	aa	Right,

sd	even though I would have liked to have had her stay, with her health being what it was she couldn't anymore.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	but he was living alone, had an upstairs apartment, could barely make it up the steps to the top without a great deal of pain,

b	Oh.	sd	eventually things just went too far

b	Yeah.	sd	and he allowed himself to be put into a nursing home.

sd	but she's accepted it real well now	b	Right

sd	but when she does a nurse is right there to help her	b	Uh huh.

sd	so. It became dangerous for us to keep transporting her back and forth in the car because she was so wobbly and needed a walker or a wheel chair	b	Yep.

ad	so we've got to talk about music.	aa	Okay.

qr	And, do you like classic rock, or modern rock, or which kind?	sd@	I guess the stuff that was done more in the seventies, because * slash error Well, no that's really when I grew up,

qy	not a seventies baby.	sd	so that's really what I like better,

qrr	or is it like,	nn	No,

bf	so they can get like the Doors and Led Zepplin.	b	Right.

aa	that's cool.	b	Right.

qy	And, how about the Rolling Stones?	ba	sure,

qy	How about, Pink Floyd?	na	Sure,

sv	so then we got some same things	b	Okay,

sd	I listen to heavy metal or classic rock.	qw	what kind of heavy metal are we talking about?

sd	We're talking about what they call hard rock.	bk	Okay,

sd	Like, for example, let's see, Bad Company,	sv	well, Bad Company's not bad,

sd	well, they're like, for example, A C D C.	b	Yeah,

qy	have you heard of them?	ny	Yes .

sv	that's, that's not really hard rock.	b	Well, okay.

bk	Okay.	sd	I mean, I think, when you say heavy metal, I'm thinking about like Cinderella, you know.

sd	Well, Cinderella is hard rock, heavy metal.	sd	Well, see, I don't really care for Cinderella .

sd	and the guitar is set like, really low,	b	Yeah.

sd	and then they start dancing around,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they just bump into each other,	b	Uh huh.

sd	like they hit each other with their shoulders,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and what you do is, you also try to get up on stage and jump down on top of all these other people.	qy	Is that the kind of music that you like?

sd^e	I don't like that music.	bk	okay.

sd	that's what some people call like really heavy metal.	b	okay.

sd	and, like, you always thought about, like, suicide. And killing people and stuff like that.	b	Yeah.

sd	they just talk about, like, life in general.	b	Right.

qy^d	Like, Queen's Reich, if you ever heard of them.	na	sure.

b	Yeah.	bf	you, you're talking Queen,

sv	but, but, but you got to like Queen also.	bk	okay,

qw^d	let's see, the one that they have the whole opera singing in the background.	ba	Oh!

sd	Bo, Bohemian Rhapsody.	aa	right,

sd	Because, I mean, I just love that song.	aa	Yeah,

sv	But then, they started going downhill like everybody else.	aa	Well, that's true.

sd	I don't like the new stuff.	qy	Of the Stones?

ny	Yeah.	aa	Yeah.

sd	Well, for example, I used to like old Phil Collins.	b	Right.

sd@	An old, Genesis? / * listen	aa	Yes,

sd	and then he came out with, see, for example, his record like, No Jacket Required.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can't stand him.	b	Right.

sd	And so, that's what gets me mad.	b	Yeah.

qy	But, did you go see that new Doors movie?	nn	No,

sd^e	I saw it when it opened.	qy	Was it really good?

sd@	Well, it's, you know, it's like, I was watching Siskel and Ebert, * slash error you know, like those guys that criticize movies?	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, they both loved the movie, right?	b	Uh huh.

^q	it took me back to the sixties, and stuff like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because like, the end is, like, really depressing.	b	Oh.

sd	I was born in nineteen hundred sixty nine.	b	okay.

sv	I mean it's just that, like the sixties music's got a lot to say.	b	Right.

sd	I never found out what a lot of the seventies music had too.	ar	Well no,

sv	but I bet you were out there with your bell bottomed pants,	aa	Well, that's true .

qy	did you go to college?	nn	Well, no.

ba	that's cool.	nn	But no

b	Okay.	sd	so, you know, in seventy eight, you know rock was starting to get really heavy, you know,

b^r	yeah.	sd	disco was pretty much dead by then.

b	Yeah.	sd	so that's what I mean,

sd	Well, they always say that the seventies was the lowest point in progression, ever in history.	br	About music?

sd	about everything.	b	Okay.

sd	the eighties are called, like the progressive years, or, you know, like the technology years, because of all the computers and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, nobody cared to name it .	ba	That's kind of funny .

sv	Him just standing there.	aa	Yeah,

^q	you're not missing anything, you know,	aa	That's true.

sv	I mean, it was, I guess it was pretty bad times.	aa	Yeah.

sd^t	we've been talking for seven minutes,	ba	good.

bk	Okay.	sd	I was kind of in the middle of supper,

fa	I'm sorry.	bd	I just left it.

bk	okay.	bd	And so, you know, it's okay.

fc	It is not, that bad.	fc	Okay,

fc	Bye, bye.	fc	Great,

sd	maybe you saw in the paper this morning that, they've had some problems with, the recycling on plastic,	^2	With the plastic.

sv	I thought that was most interesting.	sv	Well, I thought it was sad that it started out as a good program. * two utts? But then people started dumping trash. and the wrong objects in there,

b	Yes.	sv	and I, and that concerned me, that people were using it as a way to get rid of things they just didn't want to set at the curb or take to the dump,

aa	That's right.	sv	and, and, it's too bad that people have to ruin, a good part thing.

sd	and she was dividing her colored glass and her plastics, and her aluminum,	b	Oh.

sd	now we're doing it on a, city wide basis in communities.	ba	Doing it .

sv	So it's wonderful that we've come that far, I think	qy	was she like a group that was doing it,

sd	there were places where she could actually take her, things herself,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and I thought wow, that is wonderful, that somebody does that.	sv	you have to really want to do it, though.

b	Yeah.	sv	even what you recycle,

b	Yes.	sv	and, of course, then, you know, you try to buy right too,

b	Yeah.	sd	we, we had neighbors that complained when we got the new garbage cans.

bh	Isn't that amazing?	sd(^q)	And I thought what are you complaining about, when you're only going to get picked up once a month, you know, or once a week

sv	People, I don't know, they find fault in everything, rather than say this is a good effort.	bf	Rather than work with it.

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

aa	I know what you're saying,	sv	Well, it's for everybody's benefit.

b	Yep.	qh	and, what kind of quality of life are you leaving them?

b	Right.	sd	and the, and I have a real concern about that.

aa	I agree.	sd	We've never had much trash,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they weren't rich ,

b	Yeah.	sd	and they had to recycle.

ba	Sure.	sd	they just used things,

sd	and she is to this day,	b	Uh huh.

sd	or, if she needed, sandwich paper or something, she'd use that.	b	Yeah.

sd	I recycle like zip lock bags and, things like that.	b	Right.

sd	I mean, they I think they give me a hard time,	b	Right.

sd	but I think they know that that's, it's the right way .	bf	They've picked up the hab ,

aa	That's right.	sv@	and pretty soon they're figuring out that's not such a bad way / * slash error with utt2; one utt

sv	you, you can't be waited on all your life and expect things to always work out.	b	Right.

aa	that's right.	sv	even in Mexico, you don't see things thrown away, like we do here.

b	yeah.	sv	I mean, what we throw away is a ransom, a king's, ransom to most people,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and even to people in our country, who scavenge for food

b	Yeah.	sv	and, and, and I think you have to get into a period of need, bef ,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you can't tell a person that lives in a hundred, two hundred, three hundred thousand dollar house that have all that they need, and all that they could want that they've got to be careful.

aa	No.	sd	I, this is why I thought Jimmy Carter was never very pos ,

b@	* slash error Uh huh.	sv	you know, people didn't like him.

aa	yeah,	sv	and, I, nobody wanted to hear it.

sv	I think that it has to really hit home before, the message sometimes.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Or you have to grow up with it being important in your life, before the message really takes hold sometimes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	, it's just really interesting to me how now more aware of things I am even myself, than I used to be, a few years ago.	b	Right.

sd	I mean, like I'd go to the U T D, cafeteria for lunch sometimes	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they use styrofoam plates, when they wouldn't, need to use styrofoam plates.	b	Right.

sd	I wonder if, you know, maybe I need to bring that to someone's attention, you know,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and I think it's, just McDonald's effort to reduce the number of styrofoam, boxes that they use, for hamburgers and stuff,	sd	Right.

sd	I think is a good example, you know, that even, industry is willing to do it.	b	Huh.

sv	Well, I think that's kind of what it's coming to, I'm sure.	aa	that's right

aa	yeah.	sv	with the mind set of the American public, I think what they will do is start paying Mexico to take our trash. * slash error that isn't harmful. / * sv

b	Uh huh.	sv	Or they will go dump it out in the middle of some ocean.

ba@	* slash error I know it,	sv	That's the way we solve problems.

sd	Well, it depends where in Dallas you are.	b	Uh huh.

sd	There are certainly parts of town I would not want to live in.	b	Yeah.

sd	it is very location dependent	b	Uh huh.

sd	and there are parts of town here where, when they talk about the nightly gunfire.	aa	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's really funny,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You know, and I think most of that is because their parents aren't around.

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

bf	the, what they call the latchkey children.	b	Yeah,

sv	so I think our,	b	Uh huh.

sd	not that we don't have a certain amount of local problems	b	Uh huh .

sd	and, the main crimes within the suburb here are the theft crimes. A small number of assaults,	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, if we have one murder a year that's probably as many,	b	Yeah.

sd	but then, you know, you go into Dallas and they are, unfortunately having murders at a rate greater than one a day.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think they definitely have more problems in the area.

sd	it's one of those things where, if you're a grad student you can appreciate the statistics on	b	Uh huh.

sd	Unfortunately there are often these correlations that are inverse of what they should be like, wherever there are more, criminals, there are more policemen	b	Yeah.

sd	but that's which came first.	b	Yeah .

sv	it's basically the problem is in the society and the society's views	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, well, since now I'm in my mid forties, when I was in grad school or when I was an undergraduate growing up in a more rural area I thought, you know, crime was reasonably unknown and just the situation that's developed with the drug * new slash unit? aspect of, the pushers, the dealers and the addicts,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Because it just was not, something back in the sixties that I even had to worry about.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so it's effected all of us.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	o	That make sense?

sd	You know, in a sense I'm n , I have real mixed feelings on that	b	Yeah.

sd	it would certainly be an interesting test	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I think if I look back fifty or a hundred years I'd say, you know, back then there were the opium dens	b	Right.

sd	they let this person who had ruined it well, die or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean they probably became weakened physically and other things to the point that their life expectancy was real short,	b	Right,

sv	we need to take care of people even if they have, you know, physically ruined themselves.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah	aa	Yeah,

sd	I would certainly like to see a real test of making drugs real cheap to see if when you make them available people then don't use them.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, but that was interesting, you know,

sd	and, of course, I'm a baby of the old school	b	Yeah.

h	not that I'd remember that much from the fifties	b	Uh huh.

sv	but basically we have so much more of the something for nothing mentality.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Of course I work for lawyers a lot	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I see, unfortunately, we have this whole mentality that somehow there are these pots of money out there that you can sue somebody and, you know, there's a million dollars you can have for mental duress or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	is that people are well indoctrinated in their society that drunken driving is unacceptable.	aa	Right.

sv	if you're going to drink, and you may drink, you better have your designated driver.	b	Uh huh.

sv@	In this country, and for example with alcohol or with drugs we don't seem to understand how to handle it as a society to say it is okay under these circumstances, but if you step outside these bounds, the punishment is extreme. * slash error And we mean it.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	my father was hit by a drunk driver when I was in high school

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, that, that was an awful three years afterwards. You know, of recovery and the difficulties and, everything we did

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, the guy went free because this was twelve years ago thirteen years ago,

b	Uh huh.	sd	his father was even, the, police chief of the town.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So there was no repercussion at all. You know, other than insurance,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, our insurance paid for everything,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they came and questioned us.

sv	But, that kind of shows how our attitude toward drinking and driving was, misplaced for years	b	Right.

sd	you know, it was an acceptable social behavior.	aa	Yeah,

qw	what does your city have for gun control if anything?	sd	we just voted in, strong gun control here in the state of Maryland.

sd	and none of them are recent, right.	b	Uh huh.

qy	do you know who he is?	ny	Yeah .

sd	and Willie Nelson.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Yeah.	bf	Sort of easy listening because you like country

sd	I just like Willie Nelson I guess because he's such a character.	b	uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, I mean they're not the typical country where they're just, you know, my wife left me, my dog left me, you know .

aa	My truck is broken down.	aa	Yeah,

sd	he plays piano.	nn	No.

sd	but he plays wonderfully.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I like that.	qy	d , are you, do you play the piano,

sd	I've got a piano,	b	Yeah.

sv	It is real relaxing.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	because I mean, I play the flute

aa	so do I.	br	What's that?

sd	Forgot about that.	br	What's that?

sd	I forgot about jazz .	b	Yeah,

sd	I love them.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and you know how you put the headphones on and listen to it	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was just so wonderful.	b	Yeah.

sd	And then even my eleven year old boy loves to listen to it.	bh	Isn't that nice.

b	Yeah.	sv	and, it, it, it, you know, it has pieces that are uplifting,

sd	you know those little booklets that come along with it	b	Yeah.

sd	and you can just see the things that they're trying to show with music.	b	Yeah.

sd	then he buys the pieces that have that person. You know, on it.	b	Yeah.

sd	but he does.	sd	I can't identify them either.

qy	Were you in the band?	na	I was in the band,

sd	So was I.	sd	and I was in, like, chamber music groups and stuff,

b	Yeah.	^h	and , I like, , let me think who,

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

qy	Did you like them?	ny	Yeah,

qy	Is it just instrumental?	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	t3	You know, how many people are in Simply Red, Stuart ,

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, then } I'm going to go to Sulphur Springs.	sv	you must live in this area.

qw	where are you?	sd	We're in Sherman.

sd	So we're in Garland.	bk	okay.

ny	Yeah .	qy	For East Texas or something?

ny^r	yeah.	bk	okay.

sd	not because there's much else .	bk	okay.

qy	For colleges?	ny	Yeah,

sd	No more for me.	b^m	No more,

qw	what do you do?	sd	Well, right now I'm just a homemaker,

qy	Are you going to go to East Texas for that?	nn	No,

sd	and it was for a murder trial.	b	uh huh.

sd	Anyway, this is happened in nineteen eighty three.	b	Yeah.

sd	and the trial won't take place until June.	b	Yeah,

sd	and he's going to testify for the State against her so he'll have his sentence reduced.	qy	And this is the man that was in front of you?

ny	Yeah.	sd	well they'll, weed him out.

sd	he got off right away.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I wrote that down on my questionnaire that he'd told me that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I won't be chosen.	arp	Well, not necessarily

sd	Hopefully .	sd	but there's probably something else that might make you.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, pretty much a lot of people would know about it, you know, and know some of the different things about it

sd	I said that, I could believe in it in certain instances, but I'd find it hard to levy that against somebody.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	because if that's what the punishment is in that instance, then you're always going to say, you know, not gui ,

sd	see I was picked for another murder trial before	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you've got to come up with a decision.	sd	Well, especially with something where you have to find it beyond a reasonable doubt.

qw	what do you like to cook?	sd	well I like to cook foods I like to eat.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I find that that's pretty easy to cook because a lot of it is one dish meals, type things and, they're kind of convenient.

sv	That would be good for a dinner party, you know, to cook that because you don't have to deal with eight different things, coming out at once.	aa	Right.

qy	Is that what you usually cook when you have a party.	nd	I usually have parties that are smaller groups.

b	Uh huh.	na	I guess I usually do.

ba	fattening .	aa	Yeah,

sd	our senior pastor and his wife came over.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I really wanted to make red beans and rice with . you know, sausage,	b	yeah.

sd	because I'm from New Orleans originally.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't know why.	b	really.

sv	I don't know if it's me or the water or the recipe I have	sv	Humidity or something.

sd	That's what I like to make is just real neat stuff like that	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, it seemed kind of boring compared ,	sv	It kind of down played compared to what you would like, huh.

aa	Right.	qy	Do you find yourself, with all the, cholesterol and high fiber changing the way that you entertain?

sd	I made a roast,	b	Uh huh.

sd	my husband broke the coffee pot I just bought yesterday.	ba	no.

sd	when Ricky and Carrie came over we made, a pot roast with rice and gravy and salad and the whole bit.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And normally we don't eat like that during the week because of you know, the calories and the fat in it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we had extra crust with it,	b	Yeah.

sd	it was so fattening.	ba	That sounds good.

sv	But, I don't think we gained any weight from it	sd	Well, every once in a while I think I feel the same way.

sd	and she didn't eat it.	b	yeah.

sd	I figured there was less calories in apple pan downy than in fudge brownies.	b	Yeah,

sd	So, I've read a good brownie recipe.	ba	that's good.

sd	anyway, so I guess that's about what I did when I entertained.	b	Uh huh.

qy	So, do you have anything else you want to say about it?	^h	nothing comes to mind right off,

fc	well it was nice talking to you.	fc	Okay

fc	bye.	fc	Bye, bye.

qy	Do you have children?	ny	yes.

b	Oh.	qy	And you?

sd	I have one that's a freshman in high school, a daughter. And a son who's a sixth grader in a middle school.	b	Okay.

sd	And I spend most of my time carpooling .	b	Oh .

sd	The story of my life .	aa	Yes .

sd	my rule is that they can't play a sport the same time of the year , because there's just not enough of me to drive them around everywhere.	sd	We spend a n , did spend a lot of time,

sd	The insurance.	aa	yeah,

sd	My son, is in both band and scouts too.	sd	And, and the, yeah, younger one is, the sports one

ba	gee.	sd	we spend a lot of time, carpooling you know, and then trying to be, up as much as possible with anything that they do.

b	Right.	sd	But then, we also didn't , spend, time with them trying to,

b	Uh huh.	sd	at a fairly young age we started teaching them to play games and card games and so forth.

b	Yeah.	qo	What about you?

sd	We found this Oriental tile game called Mah jongg .	b	Yeah,

qy	Have you?	no	I've never actually played it.

sd	and it's more fun with four people.	b	Yeah,

sd	So if they want to play, they have to play with mom and dad.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, we like to go miniature golfing and to movies.	b	Yeah.

sd	so we go visit both sets of grandparents and take car trips.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and my husband and son go camping with scouts mostly.	b	Okay.

sd	So that just kind of works out real well.	b	Yeah.

sd	so a lot of times, she and I will travel to writers conferences together.	ba	now that's neat.

aa	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	So that gives us special time together too.	b	Yeah.

sd	and she gives me ideas for my writing too	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I, I grew up on a farm, in Iowa,

b	Right.	sd	it's a whole different, kind of thing there then,

sd	and we still don't know what he does.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, that kind of covers it.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah,

sd	He's been on temporary duties where he's been gone nine months.	b	Oh.

sd	So those are the real killers.	aa	Yes.

sd	and that's mild compare to the big ones,	b	Yeah.

sd	And something major, always needs to be done.	b	Yeah.

sd	So you just have to handle it until he gets home .	b	Yeah.

sd	Well I wondered if I was going to get to talk to a male or a female on this type .	qy	Have you been talking to males?

sd	I was afraid we might get into an argument.	aa	Right.

sv	Well, I guess there have been certainly a lot of changes in the last couple of generations, for, the roles of women	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I guess the most significant probably is that so many are working now, And trying to juggle job and home and family and all sorts of other possibilities, you know,	b	Right.

sv	they may be going to school, or may have elderly parents, or you know all sorts of other things.	b	Yeah,

sv	I, I think it's extremely difficult to keep up with all that we have to these days.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Sometimes, I think I am going crazy trying to do it	qy	Do you work outside the home?

ny	Yes.	qy	Do you have children?

sd^e	They are getting older now,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they are still there, you know,	ba	sure.

sd	and you know, I still provide most of the things that go on around the house.	b	Right.

sd	and it was tough.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think sometimes other things suffer and tha ,

sv	and that's where the problem is really.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm very active with, other people with children my age

b	Uh huh.	b	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	sv	it's almost as though it puts you on different sides of a fence.

b	Right.	sv	And if you don't then, sometimes you feel like you're looked down upon by people that go back to work and so you're just wasting your time , at home.

sd	I mean, I've done some of both.	b	Uh huh.

sd	when my kids were real little, I was at home for a couple of different periods of time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but still at least I was able to spend, you know, those first months with them.	b	Right.

sd	But, I mostly went back to work because I was tired of doing without things.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, even now, I would like to not have to work in some ways.	b	Right.

sd	it's kind of pull and tug,	b	Yeah.

sd	on the other hand, I can't imagine just being at home, although I have a lot of interests and a lot of things I would like to pursue.	b	Uh huh.

sv	still, there's sort of a feeling of accomplishment with having, you know, a job and all that goes with that.	aa	No,

b	Oh.	sd	and I do taxes and bookkeeping

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I mean, I still, unfortunately have to be very disciplined in doing my work at five in the morning and ten o'clock at night,

b	Yeah.	sd	but it's worked out for my family, to have my cake and eat it too, kind of thing.

qy	or are we going to keep having to try to juggle all of this?	no	Well, I hope that they will change

b	Yeah.	sd	I hope to see employer based, you know, helping out. You know, child, care centers at the place of employment and things like that, that will help out.

b	Uh huh.	qo	What do you think,

sd^e	well I see, I think some people wanting to stay home more and take care of the children.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and even those who may not do it seem to be spending more time with their kids and really trying harder at making all of the family things work.	b	Right.

sv	I don't know if they want to completely give that up.	aa	Right,

sv	But, it would be nice if there could be an in between, a middle ground somewhere.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	they want to know things are going to be a certain way.

sv	I think they like a routine of sorts.	b	Uh huh,

sv	but it's still a long way from being what it ought to be.	aa	yes,

fc	well I enjoyed talking to you.	fc	Okay,

fc	good bye.	fc	Bye bye.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'll fix the porch up with pumpkins for Halloween and Christmas,

sd	and she's, sedentary all day long so when she gets home she likes to mow.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she tries to mow about half of it .	ba	Wow.

sd	because when we got this place the dirt was just overgrazed	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, you know, it was bare dirt in a lot of places	b	Uh huh.

sd	but but just by keeping it mowed and getting it mulched in, we've reclaimed a lot of it.	ba	sure.

sd	We have one little flower garden that we work with.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The rest of it is just like wild flowers	b^m	Wild flowers.

sd	and in the summertime we get the prettiest yellow flowers.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They're about, I guess, a third the size of palm of your hand	b	Uh huh.

sd	and course in the spring we get the bluebonnets and Indian paintbrush.	ba	that sounds lovely.

sd	Well, my wife and I really enjoy that sort of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can't believe it.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I mean, I hate it .	b	uh huh,

b	Right.	sv	and, that's what's nice about living more in the country,

sd	We don't even have any concrete or asphalt.	b	Oh.

sd	but, you know, we do everything together.	b	Uh huh.

sd	two weeks ago we got a thousand pine trees from the, you know, soil and conservation people	b	Oh.

sd	and, we're in the process of planting	ba	Wow that's,

sd	and I think what we're trying to do is create sort of a wind break because I tell you, in the winter time when that wind comes out of the north, it just cuts right through you like you're not even there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we have morning glory	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we planted those out by the septic, so that, they get plenty of water	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we get hummingbirds come in the spring, you know, all summer long.	b	Oh.

sd	And, well, when we leave the doors open, they fly in the house.	ba	really .

sd^e	they don't like it in here because there's nothing to eat	ba	I see.

sd	and when you're as busy as one of those babies, you've got to eat most of the time.	b	I see.

sd	we put up some hummingbird feeders and some bird feeders.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, we've got some plum trees and some apple trees and some tomato and some blackberries and strawberries.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Man, we get the best strawberries, that you just can't believe.	ba	that sounds wonderful.

sd	We just got our last tomatoes.	ba	I love home grown tomatos.

aa	Yeah.	sv	There's nothing like them.

sd	Well, these are accidental tomatos.	qw	What does that mean, accidental tomatoes?

sd	of course you're going to lose some that way	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the seeds go right through them.	b	I see.

fp	Hi, Donna.	fp	Hi.

qy^t	Ready to get started?	ny^t	yeah,

sd^t	Sort of an interesting topic since I just got back from lunch here .	b	Okay.

sd	I'm an officer in the Air Force,	b	Oh.

sd@	and we went to the Officers' Club for a little Mexican food / * slash error with utt2: one utt	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	b	Okay.

qw	If you're having a dinner party, what would you serve?	^h	Okay,

na	Sure.	^h	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then we'd have, like a big Greek tossed salad kind of like a Caesar salad.

b	Uh huh.	t1	And, let's see what else.

qh	well, when is the party here? .	b	Yeah.

sd	It's just there's no motivation.	aa	That's right.

sd	You know, I want to throw some charcoal on the grill and throw a steak on there and some baked potatoes and stuff like that	ba	Well, that sounds good too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, when we have friends over I have my oldest kind of baby sit for the little two younger ones upstairs

b	Uh huh.	sd	so once in a while when we do something like that it's kind of fun,

b	Yeah.	qy@	is that / * slash error with utt3; one unit

sd^e	that's what they, they are shooting for here.	bk	Okay.

no	Well, I live on a lake here,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then during the summertime it's real nice to be able to entertain outdoors,	ba	sure.

sd	so we, sort of, a, * slash error with a.54 two utts really good place to do entertaining like that.	b	Uh huh.

h	but, I don't know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I had a gang of people over and kind of made a fried chicken thing and biscuits, and kind of southern food even though I'm up here in New York,	b	Uh huh.

ny	Yeah.	b	Oh.

aa^r	Yeah,	bk	I see.

sd	it is.	sd	And I'm originally from Long Island.

qy	no kidding?	ny	Yes,

sd	Upstate.	b^m	upstate.

sd	In, Griffins Air Force Base.	bk	okay.

no@	Well, I was born in Buffalo, / * slash error with a.76; one utt	bk	okay.

sd	and, been all over the place.	ba	wow.

b	Yeah.	sd	and that's real interesting because then you get different kinds of foods and new recipes

b	Right.	sd	and get the recipe from them or whatever.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, we're just getting into the fajitas and all that stuff that you could,

ba	Sure.	qy	do you know what a fajita is?

ny^r	Yeah,	b	Yeah.

sd	I've been down to Texas a few times, and, had, the pleasure of their good Mexican, cuisine down there.	bk	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you boil them, maybe like four chicken breasts,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then you debone them and kind of shred them up into the meat that has gotten cooled

sv	It seems to me that one of the biggest differences is the computer revolution.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we did end up with, I B M, P C s, which I now would not have chosen ,	bh	Really?

sd	But that was before the Macintosh.	b	Yeah.

sd	And twenty years ago I was, in graduate school pecking out a dissertation on a manual typewriter .	aa	I know it.

sd	So I would say that's one of the largest changes at least in my life.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they were just getting out with you know, the disks and all that, getting away with the cards, you know, doing away with the programming cards

sd	and, have it punched in on those little cardboard cards which, I don't think exists anymore.	aa	I know.

sd	You never see one of those punch cards anymore.	sv	I think T V has a lot to do with the changes, too. Don't you? In, like, people's attitudes.

sv	certainly in the last thirty I would say there have been significant changes. even the change from black and white to color television.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I sure didn't have access to one.	b	Oh.

sd	so it's close to getting, one T V per person they say .	b	Yeah

sd	because, now I almost never watch a T V program when it's on.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I can just put it on pause .	b	Yeah,

aa	Right.	sv	That's always convenient.

sd	You skip the commercials.	b	Uh huh .

sd^t	I think they just said the social, social changes in the United States.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	How was life different ten, twenty, or thirty years ago.	sd	Well, I can't really remember back that far,

b	Yes.	sd	and now people have jam box with C D players in them, you know. And, hand held T V s and car phones.

sd	 ten years ago I was working in a job at a medical center	b	Yeah.

sd	and then you had to go find a telephone and call in to find out what they wanted you for and who you were supposed to call.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they have a little display screen that shows you a message and either tells you a person or a phone number to respond to	sv	Those are cool.

sd	And they have the kind that just vibrates so you can shut them off, in a theatre or something	b	Yeah.

sd	and you can still get your messages .	b	Yeah.

^h	But, let's see, social changes,	qw	where do you think it's going to go in twenty years?

sv	I was just thinking, though, about a huge social change in the last ten years is AIDS.	b	Yeah.

sd	I know that because I was writing a paper about it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, there was a suspicion, that it was a virus	ba	Wow.

sd	and they were really just going on epidemiological, guesswork, because the way it was transmitted made it look an awful lot like, hepatitis	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then, from the spread pattern of hepatitis, they could work backwards to the transmission by, blood and semen.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I was in English as a matter of fact, and medieval studies,	ba	wow.

sd	so, ten years ago I was working in the medical center, publishing a journal and writing about medical topics .	b	Yeah.

sd	And, let's see, twenty years ago, I guess we were just beginning to get into what they were calling the sex revolution after the pill	b	Yeah.

sd	Thirty years ago there was no pill.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have, four kids in college right now, children and stepchildren	b	Yeah.

sd	and I know that the expectation for them was, to have sex and, much earlier, than the expectation when I was in college.	b	Uh huh.

sd	In my day, we talked quietly behind our hands about people that we suspected might be, sleeping with their boyfriends .	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was really only, acceptable if you were engaged and planning to get married in the relatively near future.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I certainly know from talking to my stepdaughter that girls in high school were under a whole lot more pressure nowadays.	b	yeah.

sv	And I guess the answer, is, stay flexible because nobody can predict what's going to happen in twenty years .	sv	Seems like it can't get much worse.

sd	so I sure wouldn't have been able to predict for him.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And some of the other ones weren't born.	b	Yeah.

sv	Electronic mail.	b	Yeah.

sd	and that's made a difference in the way I do my job because it's so much easier to get hold of people and get quick answers to things. Even when they're on another continent.	b	Yeah.

sd	but it was used as kind of an extreme emergency	b	Uh huh.

sv	and nowadays people use Fed Ex, all the time.	aa	Yeah.

sd	It's much more common for people, even teenagers to be going to Europe and South America and, Asia.	b	Yeah.

sd	I was almost thirty before I got off this continent.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, both my kids had been abroad when they were still in high school .	b	Yeah .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, especially come home every couple months.

sd	Well I have five.	br^m	You have five?

aa	Right.	qy^g	Well you do have a hard time finding time then don't you?

sd	so I really have just a thirteen year old at home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I work at it .	bk	All right .

sd	I try to fool everybody .	sv	I think you're doing a good job.

b	Uh huh.	sd	well there's not much I can do about it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it's hard to raise one child without them thinking they're the pivot point of the universe.

sd	And that's one reason I have so many because I enjoy the big family.	b	Yeah.

sv	and it's the same type of thing,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I was the youngest.

b	Yeah.	sd	So I understand how that worked.

sd	When things don't go right, she just calls one of them, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think it was easier when they all had each other and could entertain each other and I was home more.	qy	Did you all do a lot of organized things like, Little League, soccer?

sd	and we did a lot of things together.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we have flown all over the world for her to compete and to perform.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, there is a competition all the time.	b	Yeah.

sd	and maybe dancing school for a while or mainly school sports and things like that.	sv	You know, I think that's probably true. The,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and if you have a large number of children then you don't.

sv	Well, you can't afford to.	aa	No,

aa	Right.	sd	like my son is in, Little League this year.

aa	That's right.	sv	You know, one parent go one direction

sd	She had to go with me.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now I do work full time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so we really have to keep it together to get just her activities in and still have time to spend with each other.	sv	I don't think, although i ,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, there were five of us

bh	Really?	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I don't think our part of the country is particularly bad compared to some.	sd	Atlanta is horrible.

qy	Is it?	ny	Yes.

bh	Really?	sd	the housing is so cheap in comparison to Boston that they jump on it.

aa	That's what I've heard.	sd	They sell their house,

b	Yeah.	sd	The housing is cheaper,

qw	what kind of house do you live in?	sd	Well, we live in a brick home in far north Dallas

sd	And mine's about twenty seven hundred square foot.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think it's pretty much typical for this area.	aa	It is.

sd	I'm in here right now about twelve and a half years.	sd	So you've been there longer.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we subcontracted it out ourselves.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then we subbed it out,

b	Uh huh.	sd	My husband got his big garage.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he likes to rebuild cars and redo engines

sv	kind of hard to find one prebuilt that kind of fits those specifications.	aa	It is,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and if the house w , was large, it seemed like the garages were small even if they were three car garages which is what we have.

sd	Well, then, most of them don't have a three car garage.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They're kind of rare.	sd	So we put a three car garage in.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, even if they had three car garages, they didn't have a work space.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so he has a big landing area that's between where the cars are in the garage and where the house starts that he can work on.

sd	but my husband's got a big space in between where the cars are and the house, where he has a big work shop, you know, workbench and everything.	sv	Well, sounds like our husbands have similar interests.

sd	he just piddles on this and that.	ba	I see.

sd	But he likes to have a spot to keep all of his piddling things.	b	Uh huh.

aa	It really is.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I at one time was going to fix up when one of my daughters left, a bedroom to where I had a room to just put all of my craft stuff and sewing machine and all that kind of stuff,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it ended up I got some furniture back that one of them had moved out or something.	b	Right.

sd	So I didn't end up with my vacant room like I had thought I would.	sd	Well, we still have a son and daughter in college that come home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the other room we use as a guest bedroom because my husband's family come.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so it seems like it's always used as a bedroom.

sd	I just still have need for the four bedrooms just having company from time to time. And some of them coming back home and things, you know.	aa	Right.

sd	so when they come, they have to have a place.	aa	That's true

sd	At times I keep thinking, though, that might be kind of nice.	sd	Well, I haven't reached that point yet.

b	Uh huh.	sd	He's out of college and has a good job,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so he could afford to get married but, is not engaged yet,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my daughter's been going with the same boy for a while,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's what she plans to do.

ba	Well, I don't blame you for that.	sd	So, I hope so.

sd	and then we ended up with four grandsons.	ba	ho ho.

sd	And little boys are around the house a whole lot more than girls.	ba	A whole new world.

sd	And, I enjoy them coming, but for short doses .	aa	I can understand.

sd	they know everything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, they're fun.	bf	So you're all back to the safety catches and the whole nine yards or either watching them every minute.

sd	Well, I just watch them.	b	Yeah.

sd	I try to teach them not to get into things.	sd	Well, that's the same thing that I did.

sd	Every now and then we have to kind of go and say, now don't bother this , you know.	b	uh huh .

qy	do you do a lot of camping?	ng	Well, my husband and I haven't done a whole lot of camping,

b	Yeah.	sd	and we were hoping, to do some camping in the van,

b	so ,	sd	And it was really nice.

sd	some of them are pretty rough.	bh	Really?

sd	a lot of people I know are,	sd	I don't like really camping in the rough.

sv	but, two nights is good.	aa	Yeah,

sd	so, it was pretty nice.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	ny	Yeah,

sd	up here you got to wait until, August, until the water warms up .	b	Yeah.

sd	it's dirty you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	it's pretty funny,	b	Yeah,

sd	boy, he doesn't go in and out of the tent a hundred times . And use it as a play,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they like to play in them.	b	Yeah,

aa	I don't know .	sv	Other than, you know, taking your shoes off right before you walk in or something and sweeping it out everyday, it's really hard to keep the sand and dirt out of it.

sd	we were at a beach site, too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, up here we have quite a few mosquitoes at nighttime.	b	Yeah,

sd	they're so, bad.	bh	Really?

sd	and then they all come out.	qy	have you ever used those?

sd	We just sort of lit them.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can't see all this little, smoke buckets I call them,	b	Yeah.

sv	you can talk about that a lot,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't see going on a camping trip probably until next summer.	b	Yeah,

sv	So, it's easy for you to go.	aa	Yeah,

ba	God .	sv	So, it's not really, I guess, camping the way most people picture camping in the tent

sv	that is to have a nice vehicle where you can have everything in it, plus your tent.	b	Yeah,

b	Yep.	sd	And he just tows it behind his truck.

sv	But when you get inside they're really nice, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	and then a big windstorm it would pick you up.	b	Yeah,

qw^d	just stay in your truck.	sd	Well, theirs was so bad,

b	Oh.	sd	and they had to get out of there.

qy	So, then, were they successful?	ny	Yeah,

qy	But it took them a little while?	ny	But, yeah,

qy	so, did they get stuck?	nn	No,

bf	Well, so, they evacuated it .	aa	Yeah,

ba	Wow.	sd	I mean I think some people that had fairly sturdy, vehicles or whatever if they had like a Winnebago or something and they were farther in away from the water, I think they stayed.

b	Yeah.	sd	it was either that or their truck was going to go floating downstream.

sd	I know I like to get right on the water,	b	Yeah.

sd	like I say, they're just kind of more sturdy than anything, you know,	qy	They have them right at the campsites?

sd@	* slash error? Yeah, they're pretty nice,	ba	Wow.

o	Okay.	qw	So, who is your favorite football team?

fx	I bet you can't guess .	sv	Well, I would say the Saints after , since ,

co	And I want to tell you something.	qw	What's that?

sv	They're going to go somewhere pretty shortly.	bh	Yeah?

sv	I think they are because they're getting better every year.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, they, got a lot,	sv	Can't, call them the New Orleans Ain'ts any more.

aa	I don't think so.	aa	No.

sd	We went to the playoffs.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah .	sd	Well, I'm a Buffalo Bills fan. from a, from a long time ago.

sd	now I like them, too.	sd	So, it's good to see the Bills doing so well now

qw	Who's, their quarterback?	b	Yeah.

qw^r	Who's their quarterback?	sd	Jim Kelly.

sd	but, of course, I watch every Saints game that I can watch.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I think they're really going to do good because it seems like they're finally all coming together.	b	Yeah.

sd	If they would just quit blowing it.	sv	the N F L draft really seems to be doing its job

b	Yeah.	ad	look at the Cowboys now .

ba	Really bad.	b	Yeah.

sv	And I think that hurt a lot of, you know, people even wanting to play on their team.	b	Yeah.

aa^r	Right.	sv	And just because they had a couple of bad seasons.

sd	I mean his players were constantly getting kicked off the team because of drugs, because of, you know, messing with young children	aa	Right.

sd	and, I mean, it was just one thing it seemed like right after the other, with them.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, he'd, never seem to be able to keep his guys healthy.

b	Uh huh.	aa	you're right.

aa	Right.	h	And, I don't know,

sv	and it was bad.	b	Yeah.

sv	because everything, I mean anything that Tom Landry wanted or had, he was going to change it.	b	Right.

o	But, I tell you what,	b	Well, Yeah.

sv	Because look how good we did without a quarterback this year .	aa	I know.

sd	Well, They, had quite a few quarterbacks if you think about it.	sd	See, I can't even think of who the New Orleans quarterback, is.

sv	That, was the whole problem.	b	Yeah.

sv	It was, defense w , won all the games.	qy	were they able to draft anybody this year?

sd	because, you know, they gave away a lot of their drafts. For different people for, you know, other places.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I hadn't heard, you know, whether they have a new one or not.	qw	Well, when is the, N F L draft

sd	But, I mean, I don't know whether they have one of the first, you know, choices of somebody,	b	Right.

sv	that would be real good.	b	yeah,

sd	everybody gets in draft.	b	Sure.

sd	But, I don't know whether they'll be far enough up where they can do any good.	b	Right.

sv	But we, really, I mean, really and truly we just don't have a quarterback,	b	Yeah.

sd	But, the players and stuff, they finally quit giving away the really good players and started keeping them too.	b	Uh huh.

qy	you remember when Archie Manning was a quarterback?	na	That was a few years ago.

sv	But every time we'd get a real good player they'd treat him bad.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	and then he'd leave. * slash error Or either they'd trade him off to somebody else for two of these nobodies. / * sd	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, this year they had all good players except for the quarterback.	b	Yeah.

sv	It was, terrible .	b	Right.

sv	But, all the other places, I mean, our defense was unbelievable.	b	Yeah.

qy	Did you get to watch any of their games?	 +	lucky though to have, Jim Kelly than,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm pretty sure he was this past season.

qy	Do you watch it every Sunday?	no	when I can.

qy	Did you ever get to watch any of the, New Orleans games?	sd	I'd have to confess I don't really scope out the New Orleans games, per se.

sd@	I'm a, * slash error / * b	sd	New Orleans just isn't one of the areas,

b	No.	sd	I was born in Buffalo

^2	Teams in your area.	sd	and I lived in Detroit, too.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, first and foremost the Bills.

b	Yeah.	sd	And it was good weather.

b	Yes.	qy^g	We beat Buffalo in, was it third of December?

ba	my goodness.	sd	So, we couldn't a done much better than that in Buffalo .

sd	Because usually it's snowing .	b	Yeah.

sd	Ice and rain and everything.	b	Sure.

sd	but, I mean, these games go right down to the wire.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was right close to when we was going to find out if we was going to get to be in the playoffs, or not .	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they had to kick. to know whether we were going to win the game or lose a game because they got one point ahead of us.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You talk about people calling in.	ba	my gosh.

sd	I mean, here everybody is sitting on the edge of their chair, you know,	ba	Sure,

sd	and they changed it and gave us another game in the middle of another, you know, one that was going on.	ba	Right.

sd	The station finally, you know how they'll put the little message down at the bottom. Started telling everybody that they were not the ones that had cut that off, that it was the national, you know,	b	Right.

sd	but then in the fourth quarter they'd let them get up there either with them or, you know, right ahead of them.	b	Right.

sv	if we had a quarterback this year we would have went to the Super Bowl.	b	Yeah.

sv	And the quarterbacks just didn't do anything.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, maybe we'll get your guy.	sv	I, I don't think Jim Kelly is about to be swayed away from the Bills any time.

qo	How about yourself?	aa	All right.

b	Right.	sv	So, I mean, when you take, professionals and put them in situations, they have to make decisions based on money to fund public education,

aa	That's true.	sd	I have a real issue with that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so my opinion I think there's a big concern

sv	I think they get bogged down in a lot of small issues that you know, special interest groups can blow up, and not really get down to teaching what's important.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Teaching these kids, you know, really the basics is what it comes down to.	aa	Exactly.

bh	Is that right?	sd	a lot of the school systems don't even, the kids nowadays don't even know what the president's fitness education program is all about,

ba	I remember.	sd	and, I talked to a thirteen year old last night who goes to, one of the Plano high schools or junior highs, I guess,

aa	yeah.	sd	I have a real problem with the whole system.

sv	then it comes down to what you said before though about them being some of the lowest paid you know, public service, employees that there are,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I was absolutely flabbergasted at what she was paid.

b	Right.	sd	Of course, if she got her Masters degree it would all be different.

sv	and, that's a bad word .	aa	taxes Lord forbi , Lord forbid, taxes.

aa	There's an idea.	co	Maybe I should run for office, .

qh	Run on that then, no income taxes in Texas,	aa	That's true.

sd	I'm in Texas too,	ba	That's funny,

co	but, we'll, maybe do our small part to fix them up.	aa@	Yes, / * one utt

sd^t	I think the topic was crime in the city.	aa	Right.

sd	I live in a real small little place.	qw	Where is that?

sd	it's about thirty miles from Sherman.	qr	North, south, east, or west?

sd	It's north of Sherman.	sv	Well, you live almost in Oklahoma .

aap	Not too far.	b	Yeah .

b	Huh uh.	qy	You know where Saint Joe is?

na	I've been through there.	sd	I'm about eight miles south of it.

sv	but, just as far as watching the news and reading the papers and all that, it sounds like the crimes in the cities are really getting bad.	sd	Well, you know, I've seen those statistics and everything,

b	Huh uh.	sd	I mean, the Iraqis didn't have a lot of high tech weaponry,

b	Sure.	sd	And, they didn't kill as many people in forty five days,

b	Huh uh.	sv	I mean, that was their job, as they killed in Washington D C.

sv	I think nowadays people really just, murder is nothing to them, you know.	sd	Well, I formulated a pretty radical theory over the last ten years, I guess.

b	Huh uh.	sd	and just let them go

b	Yeah.	sv	and if they get convicted again, well, just kill them.

sv	because, most likely that will happen, won't it, that, you know,	sv	Well, I think that the best hope to eliminate crime, as we know it today is to eliminate the criminals from society.

b	Huh uh.	sv	If someone is known to have been in prison, they can't get a job.

b	Yeah.	sv	They can't be accepted into society.

b	Huh uh.	qh	And, you know, who's to put the limit on it?

b	Huh uh.	sd	And they're still let out on the street after one or two years.

b	Huh uh.	sv	Well, they may find a cure for it,

bf	in other words, if you do something the first time, that's not real bad, you know,	sv	Hey , people make mistakes.

bf	but if they do it again and they really need to face the consequences then,	aa	Well, yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	At least they might get some benefit in that,

b	Huh uh.	sd	But, you know, with the technology we have today, you can put a collar on a guys leg that will knock him down if they leave the property.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And, you can put a collar around a guys leg that will prohibit them from committing any kind of prohibitive act.

b	Huh uh.	sv	But, you know, putting them in prison, my God, that doesn't work.

sv	because look how many years they've been doing that	ad	Well, you look at places like Turkey.

b	Huh uh.	sd	I mean, if you get convicted of, you know, drug trafficking, they just kill you.

b	Huh uh.	ad	And, you look at their society

aa	yeah.	sv	I mean, You know, the way to stop that kind of behavior is two fold.

aa	Yeah.	sv	One, you need to make it illegal for both parents to work while the kids are under seven.

aa	yeah.	sv	And then, if a parent has proved to be unfit, for any reason take the kids away from the parents.

b	Yeah.	sv	Because, you know, we are what we teach.

b	Huh uh.	sv	Because that's what our society becomes.

aa	yeah.	sd	and I've, I've lived in that environment for quite a few years when I was doing construction work.

qy^g	they just think that's the normal thing to do, don't they ...	no	They're sociopathic.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I worked in a first grade classroom for one full semester

b	Huh uh.	sd	and these kids were more foulmouthed than I've ever been.

ba	In the first grade .	sd	Told me that daddy's going to whoop me to death.

sv	know .	sd	You know, and they flipping me the finger and all that

b	Huh uh.	sd	and I just said to this kid,

b	Huh uh.	^q	Because you will eventually be killed.

sv	and they react to what they see at home. You know.	b	Huh uh.

sv	If they see violence at home, that's what you're going to get from the kids at school.	aa	Exactly.

sv	and that's kind of sad.	sv	Well, you can see it in the work place, you know.

b	Huh uh.	sd	Now, you know, people get fired,

b	Yeah.	h	Or, one thing or the other.

b	Huh uh.	sv	And one of the things that's in their culture that I really think the major corporations should pay attention to, is the fact that, while Japan was becoming a great power, financially, the people that worked for those companies, worked for the same company they worked for at sixty five, as they did when they were eighteen.

b^m	Teen.	sd	And the company, took it upon itself to find a position for these people.

b	Huh uh.	ad	You look at Frito Lay.

b	Huh uh.	sd	Well, she could type about one hundred and five words per minute,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, you know, her preference is to be in an office situation where her job is ...

o	think about this?	qy	do you have children in school?

na	I do.	sd	I have two that are, now just about ready to graduate from college

qy	A lot of testing?	no	well it seems to me that kindergarten is now the equivalent of first grade.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My son leaves the house at seven thirty and doesn't get home until three o'clock.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I think that's such a long day for a kindergartner.

sv	I think that's awful.	sd	And, I have a preschooler.

qh	What's the new criteria,	qy	do you have the standardized testing now?

sd	It's I T B S and, just everything.	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's a very transient community.	nn	No.

sd	it's just north of Dallas	b	Uh huh.

sd	we must have maybe a hundred and fifty thousand people now.	b	Oh.

sd	And most of them from other places.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we just, have lots of people from everywhere. Lots of industry coming in,	b	Yeah.

sd	but I mean they do.	bf	you would like to know what they're doing right .

sv	and it's one of these things,	ba	me.

sd	and you know, it does.	ba	me.

sd	but not to where she feels different,	b	Yeah.

sd	but some of them are very rich	bf	It's hard to explain to them why you can't.

sd	and we have a very goal oriented population because their parents are.	b	Right.

sv	but the kids are expected to excel in, everything.	ba	dear.

sv	and they're expected to be.	b	Right.

sv	Texas wants very badly to be considered tops in the school system	b	Right .

sv	And so there's just a whole lot of testing and a whole lot of pushing to do well on these tests.	qo	How about the kids.

sd	They bring home notes that say they have to get a good night's sleep and eat right in the morning before, tests.	b	Huh. .

sv(^q)	and say just do this.	b	Right.

sv	You know, I just feel they do better that way.	aa	Yeah.

sv	but I think it's a very long day.	ba	it is.

sv	And my feeling is that, you know, you're only a kid once, and you don't want to spend your whole life in school.	aa	That's right.

b	uh huh.	^q	We hardly ever play

sv	I think we should do what Europe does and include cultural activities in our school system.	aa	likewise.

sv	I don't think I should have to pay for dancing lessons, gymnastics, piano.	aa	Right.

sv	I would like to see those things included in our school system because I think we should have well rounded kids not just book smart kids.	ba	Wouldn't that be great.

qh	So what does that tell you?	bh	Is that right?

sv	It tells you there's a whole lot of wasted time.	ba	my gosh.

sv	And they could be using this time better.	sd	Well, for example, in my son's kindergarten. They're really finished at lunch time.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I think either send them home or do something a little more interesting.

ba	That's a very long day for kindergartners.	aa	I agree.

sv	But I think that working parents have kind of demanded this.	ba	I wouldn't be surprised.

sv	You know, because they don't want to send them to daycare.	sv	I doubt if they would say it was too long .

sv	That's why they want them there because them somebody takes care of them all day .	qy	do you have the before school care, at your school and the after school care?

sv	it's just kind of a challenging game.	aa	It sure is.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm on it,

sv	You do tend to, forget.	aa	No.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I do enjoy playing.

qw	What is your handicap?	sd	Right now it's three.

sd	It's probably up there to twenty now if I start again.	sv	Well, if you play with some consistency though, you can get it right back down.

sd	I don't know if it's just because I like the game or I just like to see the warm weather.	sd	well, we can usually play here year around.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But there is usually two or three days in the week that you can get out there and play,

sd	you almost have to relearn every spring to get back out.	sv	It's a good game though.

b	Yeah.	sd	That's the way I look at it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I see how close I can come to that.

bf	you always work on trying to improve each day	b	Yeah,

sd	but I always managed to get near par anyway.	sd	Well, we just had the tour championship here in Pine Hurst.

b	Oh.	sd	And I went to that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	this is a big golf area.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'd say we probably have within fifteen miles, twenty golf communities built around courses that are pretty well designed and then of course, Pine Hurst

qy	Do you have, long waits, to get on the course?	ny	Yes,

b	Yeah.	sd	most of the courses have a, two day advance tee time you have to call,

sd	I, was from the, twin cities area.	qy^g	That's some cold golf too, isn't it?

qy	Are you sure you guys aren't having the bad weather?	no	We have cold.

b	Yeah.	sd	Usually January and the first two weeks of February.

ba	Well, I wish that's all we had.	sd	But, last week we were in the seventies.

b	Oh.	sd	But, it's supposed to leave early in the week and then be back in the sixties.

b	Yeah .	sd	But we don't get any snow anymore.

sv	Well, at least that doesn't, get in the way of golfing	aa	No,

sd	I'm not as ashamed to claim them this year as I have been so .	^h	let's put it this way.

b	yeah.	sv	They've had some serious problems in the past couple of years.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

qw	Why?	sd	well, partly due to ownership.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he always had this wonderful quality of being able to put his foot in his mouth every time he went to say something

sv	Well it will be fun for you to watch up there anyway to see what happens now you,	b	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now you're, you're from Texas.

aa	Right.	sd	So you've got two football teams down there.

sd	I live right by Dallas so we have one football team as far as we're concerned .	b	Uh huh.

b	That's how it is.	qy^g	There's that type of segregation,

ny	yeah.	ba	Wow!

sv	and and, I don't think anybody roots differently	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he is for the, Raiders. L A Raiders,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think I know a little more than I use to.	b	Yeah.

sd	so I'm trying .	sv	Well, it's a good past time, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	Particularly football.

qy^g	So I shouldn't even try to do it, ?	nn	Well, no.

b	Yes.	sv	I think that,

b	Right.	sv	And the hand eye coordination

b	Yeah.	sd	we're a big hockey area up here,

sv	I don't even think we have that in Texas.	br	What, hockey?

sd	I don't know.	nn	No,

sv	so I don't think we do.	sd	There's no professional hockey teams in Texas .

sd	We don't even have that very much,	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Like they have this World Football League.

b	Yeah.	sd	There are those teams that play in professional, National Football League

b	Oh.	sd	and there's teams in the United States

b	yeah.	sv	And there's only so much football you can watch.

sd	I don't like to watch.	b	Yeah,

sv	and the guys get together	b	Yeah.

sv	That's fun, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But it can get really overdone.	qy	Now, have you ever been to a professional football game?

sd^e	I have.	qy	Have you?

sd^e	I have.	qy	Did you do the whole thing, the tailgate party and the whole,

nn	actually, no.	sv	Well see, now see that's what you got to do, see.

sd	I've done that for college football.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	well the same thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	there's about six or eight guys that we use to go out for these games.

sv	And that's the thing, you know.	sd	You go, you know three or four hours before the game.

b	Yeah.	sv	it's not so much, sure the contest itself and the game itself,

b	Yeah.	sv	that you miss sitting home in your parlor, you know, with a six pack of beer and some, potato chips, you know

aa	That's right.	sv	you miss that.

aa	that's right.	sv	and any professional sport I think, you miss that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	The atmosphere of being there, you know.

sd	and, well, I twirled, you know.	b	Yep.

sd	but, you know, the last movies that I've seen were probably on video.	sd	we rent a lot of videos too.

b	Yeah .	sd	we saw,

sd	I don't particularly care for that sort of stuff.	aa	Well, I don't either.

qy^g	he maims them pretty good, doesn't he?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	 I saw it,	sd	I haven't seen that one yet.

sd	because I was told by several people that it's pretty scary and intense	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I was pretty disappointed in it.	b	Oh.

sd	but, I guess that they built me up too much. For my expectations in it there.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I haven't,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, we haven't seen that one yet, either.

sd	but, I've heard that it's real long. That it's a good movie, but it's long, like three hours.	aa	Yeah,

b^m	OSCAR.	sd	Supposed to be his debut in comedy.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Which was an interesting movie, but not very funny.

sd	and she liked it	qy	Did she?

ny	Yeah .	sv	Well, it was an amusing movie.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I guess maybe it would have been better if we'd have been at the theater as opposed to, just at the house watching it with no one else around.

sd	so, we watch a lot of movies around that category, you know that she can watch .	b	Oh.

sd	We seen THE LITTLE MERMAID, too.	sd	LITTLE MERMAID and PETER PAN I think are his two favorites that we've got .

sd	And I think there's some good Disney movies fixing to come out on video, SHIPWRECKED.	qy	I didn't hear that was coming out.

sd	and, boy, I can't think of the other one that's fixing to come out.	sd	Well, they just had THE RESCUERS movie

b	Uh huh.	qy^g	that was a Disney movie, wasn't it.

sd	Well, I'm glad to know that there's somebody else out there that doesn't get to go to the movie theater .	sd	my kids are just small babies

b	Yeah.	sd	and, there's so much out on video now, that it's almost, you know,

aa@	That's right. * slash error And then they go to the dollar movies.	b	Uh huh .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, someone said that was a lot of fun to go do.

sv	that does sound fun.	sv	And, of course, you need a baby sitter for that .

b	Right.	sd	I know we get discount tickets where my husband works,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but, other than that it just seems like it's so expensive.

aa	That's right.	sd	we went on vacation couple months ago,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That was kind of a funny movie with, Richard Dreyfuss and Bill Murray.

b	Uh huh.	sd	That was fun.

sd	I don't think that I've ever heard of that movie.	sd	Richard Dreyfuss is a, psychiatrist

qy^d	that's the one where they burn down the house or something	ny	Uh huh,

qy	the house explodes?	ny	Uh huh.

bk	okay.	ny	Yeah,

sd	I can't remember the title of it, either .	sv	Must have left an impression.

qy^g^t	so I guess that's all I have to do, right .	no^t	I guess so.

sd^t	they kept saying you have the invalid code	b	really.

sd^t	and then I found out that my new phone wasn't working right.	b	Oh .

sd^t	so this is the first time I've even done it.	b	Yeah.

qw^t	I wonder how long it's going to be on for.	sd^t	I think five minutes is the max.

qy^t	do you know?	no^t	I don't know.

sd	well, I think at this point, I for one am worried about every aspect .	aa	Right,

sd	I think the drive by shootings are getting to be so common, that's really something you got to protect yourself from.	sv	Well, that, and in the schools, too starting to put metal detectors in,

qy	Have they done that in Garland?	nn	No,

sd	Well, we had a vice principal shot at here last year you know, on the school grounds after school.	bh	Is that right?

sv	so you know, these kids don't have any trouble getting a hold of guns in any in any neighborhood, doesn't seem like.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, we didn't have to worry about that before.	aa	I know .

qh	What next?	aa	I know,

sv	they just can't do it.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think it goes all the way back to the break up of the family to a certain extent	b	Right.

sv	and how we going to bring that back together.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right	sv	and that may impact it as well.

sv	and then there's a drop in, the training of morals, really, you know.	aa	Right,

sv	some of these young kids you read about, just doesn't bother them to kill someone at all	aa	Yeah

sv	I think I think years past maybe our criminals had a little more morals, you know wouldn't kill somebody in cold blood.	sv	they don't think twice about it.

sv	I really do.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so he drove out in the country one day and shot them both,	ba	You're kidding.

aa	No,	qy	Himself and her?

sd	but the point of the story is that, that was so unbelievable a thing in those days that it was in all the papers, all over the country for weeks	ba	wow,

sv	but now, you know, you wouldn't probably read about it here in Texas	aa	I know,

sv	it's just, you know, another killing.	sd	I was watching some show the other day,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they brought up what happened in Killeen here recently,

sd	lots of their picture and life story and everything.	aa	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	this person had mental problems

b	Right.	^q	 you know,

qh	I know, how we straighten up all these twisted people before they do something terrible,	b	Yeah.

sd	So, that story I just told you about my mother's beautiful cousin, well, the same thing happened here in Arlington, when was it, I think it was almost a year ago in December to a girl that my daughter had graduated from high school with.	bh	Is that right?

sd	she was a real attractive blond girl, in her freshman year of college	b	Uh huh.

sd	and some boy she tried to get rid of, he was like in his twenties,	sd	I remember seeing that,

qy	Remember that?	na	I saw that on Hard Copy .

aa^r	right,	aa	Yes.

sd	My daughter graduated with her from Arlington High School.	bh	Is that right?

qh	can you believe it,	^h	I'm trying to remember,

b	uh huh.	sd	and he just shot them himself and her.

aa	Right.	sd	I remember seeing that.

qy	isn't that weird?	ny	Yeah,

sv	that's not doing anything.	b	Yeah.

qy	That a little town or a bigger city?	sd	it's not one of the bigger ones. It's probably, I compare it to the size of Plano, maybe a little smaller.

sd	I talked to someone that was only a couple of thousand in her town, I think.	bh@	really? * slash error No . / * nn

sv	I'd say, first of all, they need to go back to spending more time on the basic reading, writing, arithmetic in grade school,	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you have any?	no	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my dad is actually on the school board there,

sd	Plano, improved greatly in the last twenty, twenty five years	b	Yeah.

sd	but I'm just speaking overall across the country.	b	Oh.

sv	Something is definitely wrong.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they truly can't read	b	Right.

sv	Another problem is you're going to keep the smarter people in the system too long paying the wages they do.	b	Right.

sd	That's another thing about the United States.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, what they'd be teaching in an Arlington school they may not be teaching in a Plano school	b	Uh huh.

sd	whereas in another one they're going to concentrate on grammar and give you a little literature,	b^m	Grammar.

sv	So you know, that's kind of odd to me.	b	Yeah.

sv	It depends on, what school you're in and who your teacher is, actually	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I guess we lucked out when we moved here.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, you know, where our kids might be in a great school, we're still paying an awful lot of taxes for people who are on welfare and unemployment because they can't read, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they should to do the work that she is supposed to teach, you know. and according to her plan,	b	Uh huh.

sv	so I guess if there was a national curriculum we'd at least have a certain amount that all kids would learn.	b	Right.

sv	that's pretty low that there's forty eight countries ahead of us that have more citizens percentage wise that can read and write,	b	Yeah.

sv	so, unless we want to keep paying for these people that can't make it in society, we're going to have to do something.	o@	Who do you think it should be done through? * slash error . * slash error Uh huh. / * slash error

sd	because they can't even get the menial job without being able to read something nowadays you know.	b	Right.

sd	you can't even work an answering machine if you're at work and had to get a message or something , you know, or fill out an application to work at McDonalds if you can't read.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, I think that's a start at least, going back to the basics in the early grades	aa@	Yes. * slash error Yeah / * aa

sv	and that's a big jump.	aa	I believe that .

qy	Did you go to school in Plano?	na	I did.

qy^d	Through high school.	ny	Uh huh,

fp	This is Archie.	fp	Hi, Archie.

qy	Have you seen DANCING WITH WOLVES?	ny	Yeah.

qy	Have you ever lived in that part of the country?	nn	No.

qy	Have you ever visited it?	no	I've visited the Wyoming area.

sv	I think it was the black hills of South Dakota.	am	Could be.

no	Well, I lived in Omaha for five, winters,	b	Oh.

sd	and that rolling kind of,	^2	Terrain.

sv	apparently it's going to win everything.	bh	Really?

sd	and I had been told, you know, you wouldn't notice that it was three hours long, and all this, kind of,	aa	That's true.

sv	and the thing is, it was, it was a good story.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Although, I must admit I did look at my watch after about an hour.	qy	Did you?

ny	Yeah.	qy	Have you seen SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY?

sd	I've heard that's really great, though.	sv	you have to go see that one.

nn	No,	ad	Go.

sv	You must really keep up.	aa	I do.

qr	or is it just suspenseful?	sd	It's suspenseful.

qy	do you listen to Gary Cogill?	nn	No. Huh uh. / * two utts

qy	do you know who he is?	ny	Yeah.

sd	He's a movie critic on channel eight in Dallas.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they review movies.	b	Oh.

sd	I was listening Sunday night a little bit when, I was going to pick up my daughter.	b	Uh huh.

qr	or did he just do it?	sv	his heart was in it,

qy^d	You know, the guy when he first headed out from the army post.	ny	Yeah.

sd	he plays on MURPHY BROWN.	qy	he does?

sd	He's, he's Eldon, her housepainter.	qy	As a recurring character every week?

qy	Can you, believe that?	nn	No,

qy	that's one of those interesting pieces of trivia that somebody said, did you notice that?	nn	Huh uh.

sd	it was him, but with a you know, with the beard and all that stuff.	b	Yeah.

sv	it was a lot of fun.	b	Yeah.

qw^t	Why do we end this thing?	sd^t	It used to, it used to just automatically cut off

sd^t	I think it just says hang up.	sd^t	but it says when the conversation is over just say your good byes and hang up.

qw^t	Why don't we do that?	o	Okay.

fc	Good bye Sharon.	fc	Good talking to you Archie .

qy	do you think we should adopt it?	nn	No,

qy	You don't?	sv	I, I think the country is, too ingrained in the inches and just the general, background,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's going to disorient and confuse a lot of people for years and years

b	Yeah.	sv	and it's not in our national consciousness to do it.

b	Yeah.	sd	our land is in acres,

sv	I don't think the benefits of the metric system outweigh the disadvantages that would happen to the people in America	b	Yeah.

sd	and I don't know the metric system and I don't care to learn it	b	Yeah.

sv	and I'm not some kind of an idiot,	sv	And it's easy to trans ,

b	Yeah.	sd	because I'm a mechanical engineer

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it was not hard

sv	and if I have a hard time, you know putting that into my life, can we put that off on the other eighty percent of the population that doesn't have any college	aa	Really.

h	or I don't know how much of the you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	but a large percentage probably over half of the rest of the population they don't have any college probably much at all	aa	Absolutely.

sv	and if we can't take it and use it easily, well, how can you put that on, like, elderly people and you know, just people that maybe just aren't blessed with as much sharpness and mental acuity,	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think it's still good they do cover the system.

b	Yeah.	sd	And they do,

b	Yeah.	sv	and that's acceptable.

sv	The thing Americans have so much stress on them right now.	b	Yeah .

sv	I mean if you look at the average family it's, like, man, they barely have time to stop and get gas, much less to try and figure out how much gas they're really getting and do all this.	aa	Really .

sv(^q)	It's like, I mean come on let's take the pressure,	sv	You know you need twenty gallons, but you need how many liters .

sv	and it's just like another thing	b	Yeah.

sv	and leave them alone .	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	and the rest of the world, I mean, we are,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It may be arrogant,

sv^2	and if they don't like the way we do it just don't worry about it. And I think,	b	Yeah,

aa	yeah.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think we kept it at real good.	b	Okay.

qy	Is that all we need to say?	ny	Yeah.

fc	I think that was good.	fc	Okay.

fc	You know what I mean.	fc	Yeah.

fc	And I just,	fc	Well, good talking to you.

fc	Have a good day.	fc	Bye bye.

qw	what kind of hobbies do you have?	sd	I do a lot of cross stitching and painting, when I do have spare time.

sd	I like cross stitch too.	sd	I love it.

sd	I just have a hard time finding any spare time lately.	aa	That's my case also.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Have you been cross stitching long?

sd	He likes to help me design, you know, projects that are, a little more customized.	b	really.

sv	Not that hard.	aa	it's not.

sd	I really enjoy it.	sd@	And once you get started on it, I just, I love it. / * two utts

b	Uh huh.	sd	I do a lot of my own patterns also.

b	Yeah.	sd	In fact, I did one, BILL THE CAT, you know, from Glenn County that, was a real good one to do.

b	yeah.	sd	It was tough,

sd	not very artistic really for like painting and stuff.	b	uh huh.

sd	But, now I don't know.	sd	I'm still trying to get all the D M C colors .

sd	I don't have them all yet certainly.	aa	Yeah,

sd	just buy the colors that I need of what I'm low on.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the pinks, there's like forty two different shades of pink.	ba	Good grief .

b	Yeah.	sd	There's lots of shades of greens.

b	Yeah.	sd	They had quite a few new ones come out last year, that they added to.

sd^e	I just started a new job and trying to get acclimated there.	bk	yes.

qw	How old?	sd	He's seven months old.

b	yeah.	sd	And just into everything,

b	Yeah.	sd	We missed it last year,

sv	Well, last year he was a little bit young for having one.	aa	Right.

sv	You would have	aa	Right.

b	yeah.	ba	well, that's neat that you like cross stitching also.

sv	that's kind of strange that we got the same call.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's a call.	fa	I'm sorry.

bd	that's okay.	aa	Okay ,

sd	I just started about, well, five years ago, I think.	sv	But it is peaceful,

sd	and I think The child is going to be in high school before I get finished.	qy	is it one of those afghans that I've seen in the packages with the large squares?

sd	I didn't buy the, I didn't buy a kit.	b	uh huh.

sd	It's that cloth.	bk	okay.

sd	It's cloth I think.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it has the borders and everything already.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I didn't even know it.	ba	that's a .

sd(^q)	I said didn't .	ba	That was a good .

sd	It worked out that way.	ba	That's great.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like those.

sd	She hung it on the wall.	b	Yes,

b	Yeah .	sv	there just too nice.

b	Yeah.	b	yeah.

aa	True.	fc	Well, I've enjoyed this.

fc	Okay.	fc	But, well keep up the good,

fc	You too.	fc	All right,

fc	bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

ny	Yeah.	sv^t	it's something that you can really talk about.

b	Yeah.	sd^t	I don't know what we're going to do about it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, when they say the Middle East, it's such a big area

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there's so many different problems there.

sd	It doesn't matter to me.	o	Well, I'll tell you something,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they're really quite, arrogant about it all.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, they're really quite arrogant about it.

qw	Well how did they feel about the United States intervening with Patriot missiles,	sv	I'm sure this is the one time that the Israelis are really happy to have their big brothers, the Americans,

b	Uh huh .	sd	but, I didn't really talk about that with her.

b	Oh.	sd	But, when they were living in Israel, it was, the Palestinians, they come in an,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But they really do,

b	Uh huh.	sd	if I lived in Washington, D C I think I'd have a different attitude about Black people

b	Uh huh.	sv	So it's just a different world.

sd	and fifty percent of the population is minority.	sd	I talked to someone about San Antonio,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, they said that they have, you have quite the problem with, the ghettos,

sv	It's just Hispanics here instead of Blacks.	b	Yeah,

sv	and as far as gang violence and things, I don't think it's any worse here than in Houston.	b	Yeah,

ar	Houston is not at all.	qy^g	No,

sd^e	there's quite a bit of crime.	ba	my,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and we're just so protected.

sd	I think it's unfortunate, as far as the Kurds are concerned,	sv	It's just what do you do for them,

sv	but we've kind of driven these people out.	aa^2	To do it,

ba	Sure.	sd	he should have let them, corner the Republican Guards,

sv	Well I think the war ended too soon.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	everyone I talk to, they says, you know,

sv	but we should have made sure we got everything.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And once that was accomplished it,	sd	yeah, they, they did, they stuck right to their goals,

b	Yeah.	sd	what they were going to say.

b	Yeah.	sv	So they were playing it very safe,

b	Yeah.	sd	they, I don't know, they, it, Schwartz , Schwartzkopf knew what had to be done

b	Yeah.	sd	he knew what was going to happen, more than any of us.

b	Yeah.	qh	and you knew this,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it's just too bad that we couldn't see that.

sv	I don't think this whole issue is settled as far as we're concerned.	qh	Well you know what I was hoping?

sd	They've got sixty or so of Iraq's planes.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	h	But, I don't know,

sd	There are some Kurds living in Iran.	b	Yeah,

sd	I was real surprised that Israel stayed out of it as much as they did.	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	aa	You're damn right,

sv	and from, from what I can tell if they had gotten into it, it would have started a whole new war.	b	yeah,

fp	Hello.	fp	Hello there.

qy	Did I reach the Dallas area?	br	I beg your pardon?

qy^r	Did I reach the Dallas area?	nn	No,

sd	I'm from North Carolina.	sd	you're from North Carolina.

sd	In Raleigh.	b^m	Raleigh,

b	Yeah,	sd	Well, my name's Mary.

qw^t	how'd you find out about this?	sd^t	I was visiting my son down in Dallas,

bf^t	he works for T I.	nn^t	No,

sd	because I'm down at N C State.	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)^t	and he said, sign up and get some money and just talk for five minutes.	ba	Right .

qy^t	So are you ready?	na^t	I'm ready.

ad^t	let's get started.	aa	All right,

qo	what do, what do you think we can do to solve the crime in America?	sv	if I knew that I'd be a very wealthy person.

qo	but what, what are the steps?	sv	Well, you have to see,

sv	Well, see the problem is that, what happens is that you know, as you go from the country to a city, crime always increases, right?	b	Uh huh.

sv	Because in the country, people still respect, the property of other people.	b	Right.

sv	and the people in the country don't want as much as the people in the city.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and what we have to do is, we have to go, get some stuff, steal it, and then, you know, just resell it.	bf	It's easy,

qw	Which one?	sd	Drugs.

b	Yeah.	sv	And that certainly is one reason why crime here has increased.

sv	a lot of it has to do with drugs.	aa	yes.

sv	And you stop by one of these, you know, twenty four hour, you know, gas stations joints.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, they don't want the money so they can do something else with it.	aa	No,

aa	right,	sv	Well, but you know, the perhaps, not strange, but something that many people don't realize, is that you can go back as far as nineteen fifty one and fifty two and find that there were drug dealers at that time trying to influence the high school kids,

bk	Okay .	sd	And, in fifty one and fifty two, the police came to the high school where I was and were telling us how to recognize when kids were on drugs, how to recognize the pushers outside the one entrance, that they were giving their drugs away in order to get the kids started, and so on, and so on.

b	Yeah.	sv	So it's a problem that's been around for over forty years,

sv	we're going to solve, try to solve the AIDS problem while, you know, some people are getting killed here and there	b	Uh huh.

sv	But those people never get caught.	aa	That's right,

sv	and they're not going to take me alive.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I have such a big army outside of my place, that nobody can touch me.	aa	That's right.

sv	I mean, there's no connection between me and the people that were caught, you know.	aa	That's right.

aa	Right.	sv	But the guy at the very top, the one who's really making the millions and the millions is the one who also many times is part of the power structure, and had the political pull to keep the interest or the emphasis in some other direction, other than on the drug dealing,

b	Yeah.	sv	because it sure is monstrous in this country.

sd	and this guy was from Jamaica, right.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And he's got his little brother selling drugs .	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	He goes, yeah, I make a lot, a lot of money,	aa	Yeah,

qy	Did you see it?	nn	Nope,

sd	and within, two months, he has all his house payments gone everything paid, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's like, those guys, at one point, you know, they had so much money that they didn't know what to do with it .	b	Yeah,

sd	that, that was also in the movie.	b	Right.

fp	So hello Mary.	fc	Been nice talking with you.

fc	same here.	fc	Uh huh,

qy^t	Ready to talk?	no	I guess so .

^h	Okay.	^h	Okay.

sd^t	I want to talk about, our family budget, and the times that it's worked and the times that it hasn't worked and, give you a general description of it	bk	Okay.

sd	I introduced you a little bit to it, a few minutes ago, when I said that we're on the east coast now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, we both decided we wanted to move to North Carolina.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we looked at our budget,	b	Yeah.

sd	and so, what we did was draw up a budget that we thought, was realistic.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he's still hasn't hit up on anything permanently.	ba	no.

arp	Well, we actually planned for about one year.	ba	good.

sd	that God because, * listen it never occurred to , it never occurred to us that it would take seven months.	aa	Really.

sd	And, what we did was just, decide how we had been spending our money before,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we took about three months and adjusted, where we could come down and where we didn't want to come down,	b	uh huh.

sd	and we really, lessened our living expenses, more than what we thought we would.	ba	Wow, that's great.

sd	just our own design.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	ba	Gosh.

sd	our first fifteen years or eighteen years of being married nothing worked .	b	Yeah

ad	so. So, tell me about,	b	Yeah.

qy	do you all, have a budget?	sd	Well, we've been married for five and a half years

aa	Yes.	sd	so, I don't know if we did a good thing to buy a house or not

b^m	Three and a two year old.	b	Uh huh.

ba	bang.	sd	that's, that threw our budget really out of whack too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we really don't spend on anything much of a luxury or anything at all,

sv	for it to work though, you have to do something.	b	Yeah,

aa	Of course not.	sd	and they're both boys

sd	Well, I found, that, in the place that it was harder for me to stick to a budget was not where we were concerned, but where maybe our friends were concerned and our relatives and parents.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we tended to want to keep on giving lavish, gifts as, we had done before.	b	Yeah.

sv	And I really believe that if you're going to cut down on yourself, you need to cut down somewhat on your friends.	aa	On your friends,

aa	Yes.	sv	and, you know, a lot of things like that that really are hard to plan for.

sv	I think you have to budget those things though.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yes.	sv	you're going to have on extra expenses for car.

sv	although so much per month anyway.	b	Yeah,

sv	but if you don't spend it, it should be in your bank account at the end of the month .	b	Yeah

ar^r	no.	qy^d	so, that's not a good way to ,

sd	You don't want the government to spend your money.	sd	that's what my husband said,

sd	Well, but I do realize that, that is realistic for some people,	b	Yeah.

sd	and it was for us many years, for many years.	b	Yeah.

sv	and if that's the only way that will make you save and have a little nest egg at the end of the year then doggone it that's what you should do.	aa	Yeah,

sd	Well, I was just reading an article in, a North Carolina paper today where a high school student obtained over two hundred thousand dollars worth of scholarships for herself by sitting up at night and typing at, letters of applications to universities.	ba	Gosh.

sd	so, it can be done.	am	I guess,

qy^g	Where there's a will, where there's a will, there's a way, right? .	ba	that's fantastic.

fc	Well, I have enjoyed talking to you.	fc	Well, I enjoyed talking to you too,

fc	we'll have to stay home and mow the yard .	fc	boy.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qy^t	They tell you our topic?	na	pets.

sd	You've got it.	qy	Do you have pets?

sd	and we have a cat, which is, I guess about five years old.	ba	my goodness.

qo	How about you guys?	sd	We have three dogs and two birds at this point.

qw	what kind of birds do you have?	sd	Parakeets.

qy	enjoy them?	sd	have a ball with them.

qy	You let them out and let them fly around and everything?	nn	Well, no,

bk	Okay.	sd	So in order to have the birds not stuffed I have to keep them in their cages.

sd	but, we had a parakeet. And, my fault, put up our first electric fan. And never thought about it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Knocked that parakeet right out of the air.	sd	Well, we had that happen once,

qy	It killed him?	nn	No,

ba	I'll be darned.	nn	No,

sd	and that thing grew to be seven and a half feet in length,	ba@	gosh. * slash error I hate them. / * sd

sd	like, it'd been like deactivated as far as s , smell and everything,	ba	my goodness.

sd	and we sold it for about two hundred and fifty dollars.	ba	You're kidding.

sd	but, you know, does his little jobbies in the litter box,	ba	well, that's pretty good.

sv	but, they just stink too much .	aa	yeah,

sd	and this snake honestly would be stretched across the top of her body with his head right on her neck	ba	you're kidding.

sd	and a dog would be running around crazy .	ba	my gosh.

sd	and, you know, you'd feed it, you feed him small mice to big rats and things like that	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	I says you know, your friend's going to get our cat one of these days .	ba	my gosh.

aa	me neither.	sv	they need to stay outside, far away from me.

sv	and that's the way it should be,	b	Yeah.

sv	and that was just mind boggling.	aa	yeah,

bh	Are you?	sd	and, we went down to Canton one time gosh, two or three years ago now,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he'd saved up his allowance, you know, and picked him out a bird in a bird cage

b	Yes.	sd	clamped onto my finger and would not,

ba	gosh.	sd	He gives me kisses,

ba	That's neat.	sd	and it's just hysterical.

ba	Why, sure.	sd	And I'm a substitute teacher

bf	Come to my menagerie.	sd	They knew the sucker when they saw one.

qy	Do you exercise a lot?	no	it's scaled back considerably.

qy	Is mowing the lawn a new exercise ?	ny	Yeah,

ba	my.	sd	painting, lawn, gutters.

sv	I think that's considered exercise whether you want it or not.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I used to walk two miles a day,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I really enjoyed it.	b	Yeah.

sd	I could do it in twenty eight minutes.	b	Yeah.

sd	And that's not stopping and talking to everyone along the way,	b	Right.

sd	I was crawling under a desk, hooking up a computer.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I mashed it wrong, or I did something.	ba	gosh.

sd	so I can't walk.	ba	Wow.

sd(^q)	And she said, you know, the most conservative approach, you do the medicine again and again, before you think of surgery.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't want anyone to think about that , ever.	aa	No,

sd	That's that microscopic stuff, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I'm being very good.	b	Yeah.

sd	I really do,	sv	it's so aggravating to have an injury like that.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she lasted about two weeks,

aa	I can you understand that.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I will do it.	ba	Sure.

sd	I have got to be so much more careful with what I do.	b	Yeah,

sv	It's depressing.	b	Uh huh,

b	Right.	b	Yeah.

sd	Maybe I can get back into it.	aa	Yeah.

co^t	Let me ask you a question off the subject though.	bk	Okay.

qy	you're living in the Castle Park area?	na	That's right.

sd	I grew up in Oak Cliff.	qy	Did you really?

sd	just close to Methodist Hospital.	bk	Okay,

sd	C a n d y.	b	Right.

sd	in fact, I lived there until late nineteen fifties.	b	Okay,

sd	So many people are moving back into those old houses and are restoring them.	ny	Yeah,

bk	I know exactly where that is.	b	Yeah,

na	sure.	b	Yeah,

ba	that's wonderful.	aa	Yeah.

ba	That is a gorgeous, gorgeous place.	sd	it's a lot of fun,

ba	they are.	^h	You know.

ba	wow.	sd	And it's it's really coming around.

sd	I need to go over there and just drive around and look.	sv	it's worth the trip.

sd	it was like a two story.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, story and a half, really, because we had a basement.	b	Okay.

sd	I mean weird .	b	Yeah.

sd	It's one of these really creative houses, that I grew up in that nothing was on the same level with anything else.	b	Okay.

sd	And I just loved the neighborhood.	b	Yeah.

sd	They were all completely different.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and so neat.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	Next door, we've got an Austin stone.

qy	Is that not good?	sd	she could, a little bit.

sd(^q)	I think, you know, you're in Oak Cliff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	In west Plano.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we live on one of those blocks that it's a neighborhood watch block.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the street doesn't go anywhere.	b	Right.

sv	If you are on the street, you better belong there. Because it's not a through street.	aa	That's right.

sd	And, still, I want to get up early in the morning and walk. Before this knee business.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And my husband had a lot of heartburn with that.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, it looked darker to him, because he was in the house with the lights on.	b	Right.

sd	he didn't think it looked predawn to him.	b	Yeah.

sd	It looked dark.	b	Yeah.

sv	it's just because you're smart.	aa	That's true.

sv	That you don't do things like that.	sv	It only takes one time.

aa	That's right.	sv	It's a hard lesson to learn.

sv	There's only one crazy out there, you know, to make any difference.	aa	Yeah,

qo	What are your favorite shows?	sd	Well, it's doesn't seem like I get enough time to watch much T V,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've watched that SISTERS a couple of times.

sd	I've never seen that.	qy	Haven't you?

nn	Huh uh.	sd	I like that one,

sd	I like L A LAW not because it's realistic, but it's entertaining.	b	uh huh,

sd	I watch CHEERS sometimes. And, mostly just movies, when there's a good movie on.	bh	Do you?

sd	Actually when there isn't a good movie on, too.	b	Oh.

sd	I just like to have the T V on you know, if I'm home alone or something	b	uh huh.

sd	either the radio or the T V s got to be on , the whole time.	b	Yeah,

b	really.	sd	well, I've been home with a,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so I'll watch a soap occasionally.

b	Uh huh.	qy	Do you watch any of those?

ng	well, I don't, because I work all day.	b	Uh huh.

sd	after a while I'll start watching it	b	Uh huh.

sd	for a while I'll ask people if they know what happened	b	Oh

sd	and then I'll just forget it.	qw	what ones do you get into?

sd	It was like GENERAL HOSPITAL or something	b	uh huh.

sd	and I maybe watched it for a week	b	Oh.

sd	they wouldn't take a class that was in the middle of their soap opera.	ba	How funny,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, yeah, I was really trying to think.

qw	How old?	sd	I have a six year old,

qy^d	So, you aren't a SESAME STREET fan?	sd	Well, they watch it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he's entertained by it.

b	Uh huh.	ny	So, yes,

sv	Supposed to be a great babysitter .	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I do turn that on.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Sometimes I watch that.

sd	I never see it?	sd	let's see, it's on at four.

sd	that's why I don't see it.	b	Yeah,

qy	Isn't it strange how people are fascinated by other people that they think are strange ?	ny	Yes.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	So, other than that, I don't know.

qy	is it snowing up there?	nn	no.

b^m	No.	sd	It snowed a little bit, probably about four days ago

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they said we weren't going to get any more for Christmas.

qy@	Wow. But do you have snow on the ground now? / * two utts	ny	Yeah

b	Oh.	sd^e	there is snow on the ground.

ba	Well, that's nice.	sd	I wish it would snow a little bit more.

sd	we've broken all sorts of records.	ba	really.

sd	and it stopped raining almost twenty four hours ago.	ba	my goodness.

sv	but until you've really seen it, it doesn't really hit you.	b	Yeah.

sd	and that was just	ba	goodness.

sd	it was amazing to me.	ba	gee

sd	in the last three years it's happened at least once a year, if not twice. But the people continue to move back in the flood zones.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, you got to wonder how long they're going to keep doing that for.	b	Yeah.

sv	I don't think I would.	ba	boy.

sd	Because they just finished cleaning up from the last flood.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	qy	Well, now, do you work for T I?

ny	yeah.	b	uh huh.

qy	Have you made a lot of calls	na	I've probably talked maybe to five people.

b	Uh huh.	sd	My husband is doing it too,

b	Oh.	sv	but it's been real interesting and kind of fun.

qy	Do you get paid for these?	sd	five dollars.

br	Five dollars a call?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	I wish I could do that .	qy	don't you have to do it as part of its,

qw	So what do you, think is the worst culprit for air pollution?	sv	Well, I think it's probably a combination of things.

b	Uh huh.	sv	those are the ones I think primarily contribute to acid rain,

sv	it's hard to put the finger on, what's worse, know, the acid rain situation or the ozone depletion, with, your hydrocarbons, causing the damage in which,	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I notice on one of these, home shopping networks they were selling these, halogen, fire extinguishers	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's, you know, really bad on the environment.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	Automobiles of course are contributing, too,

b	Yeah.	sv	kind of hard to do anything about that, I guess.

sd	but they had a new policy where in order to get your your car license, renewed, you had to meet the pollution standards	b	Yeah.

sd	but I have an old car which I doubt would, pass the inspection, a seventy six,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, you know, there's no way I would put in a lot of money to repair it to meet standards.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, although I do what I can to cut down pollution,	sd	I was just reading an article in, MOTHER EARTH NEWS magazine

b	Yeah.	sd	you know a lot of places are burning wood

b	Yeah.	sd	a lot of people are burning wood,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, they've had you know, catalytic converters on those, on,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, apparently it sort of feeds itself.

b	Yeah.	sv	That might help a little bit, especially in some places.

b	Yeah.	sd	Now sometimes we get a kind of a,

b	Yeah.	sv	Probably blowing up there to you guys .

sd	and in the summer time we probably get yours.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	I hope we're not too late with it.

qo	What are you guys having for Christmas?	^h	What are we having?

bh	you're not.	nn	No .

b	Yeah.	sd	but, I don't know,

sd	I'm a pig farmer .	bh	you are

sd	but we're going to have, wild boar	ba	My goodness.

sd	and, we're also going to have a little roast suckling pig, because I've got one that's got a hernia	bh	really.

sd	and rather than, you know, pay the vet four hundred dollars for surgery, we'll just cook him and eat him .	qy	is that hard?

sd	I'm telling you, real easy, easier than chicken.	bh	really.

sd	in a second they're gone	b	Oh.

sd*	and then you just dip the carcass in, boiling water, pull it out, and we use a little raspy brush, pulls the hair off, and, gut it, and, just stick it down in a pit with some cloves and, some pineapple, about three pineapples, you know, sliced them up, and, cover him up with, wet, sacks, feed sacks is what I usually use * more than one utt?? and then start a charcoal fire on top of him.	b	Huh.

sd	and it's the best eating you ever had.	qy	well, does a boar taste just like regular ham?

sd^e	just like a pig	bh	Does it.

sd	This wild boar weighed probably about three hundred and thirty pounds	ba	Oh my.

sd	and he dressed out to almost two hundred and ten pounds.	ba	my goodness.

sd	and that was about, you know, a hundred pounds of just ham.	qw	well, how many people are you planning on serving at Christmas?

sd	well, you know, we're not going to eat the whole thing .	b^m	Eat it all,

sd	well her mom's doing brisket.	sd	I don't,

sd	It's a part of the cow that they used to throw away.	b	Huh.

sd	It's just tough as a boot	b	Oh.

sd	and, you know, they used to use it for leather, I think .	ba	my goodness.

sd	I was kidding.	b	Yeah.

sd	so it's really a tough piece of meat	ba	my goodness.

sd	and you marinate it for a couple of days	bf	And that softens it up, huh.

sd	They weigh about anywhere from ten to twenty pounds.	ba	gee.

sd	And, we're going to have that.	qw	Well, what else do you serve with your pig?

sd	we still have tomatoes	bh	do you?

sd^e	fresh tomatoes.	sd	we just got lots of snow .

sd	I mean it's thirty degrees this morning.	bh	really.

sd	But, it'll go up to fifty or sixty almost.	ba	my goodness.

sd	So in the day time in the summer it goes up to a hundred, hundred and ten	ba	gee.

sd	and at night it goes down to about sixty.	ba	My goodness.

sd	we get a fifty degree temperature swing in about four hours.	ba	boy.

sd	we got hundred year old trees that are, you know, twenty feet tall.	ba	gee.

qo	So, how do you feel about our policy in Latin America? .	sd	I'm all in favor of it,

qy	Do you think, we should direct the government? .	sv	Well, I think as a whole that being that the drug problem, the drug industry can, bring so much money to a country.

b	Yeah .	sv	Just that, money is power,

sd	I mean it's like his mother, his, mother came over	b	Uh huh.

sv	I just get sorry feelings for people that their family came from there and how they feel about, you know, our intervention and their government and stuff like that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	there's so many people there that get the kind of control that's bad, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, you know, I think the people in those country do want our help. The people that are under conditions that are, you know, not favorable to their rights.	aa	Right.

sv	but it seems like most of them don't , you know.	b	Yeah.

b	yeah.	sv	we fall out of, agreements with certain leaders

qy^d	So you think like C I A influence and our money over there.	ny	yeah,

sv	Or, or government aids and stuff.	aa	Right.

sv	Well, then how can you say like in, Europe, as far as the toppling of those kinds of governments, you know, like,	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	they were feeding us, you know,

qy	or do you think that we are to the degree that we are causing .	^h	Oh,

aa	Yeah.	sv	and we're, allowing, it to happen.

b	Yeah,	b	Yeah.

sv	I agree that the communication that communication has, become so much more widespread and, you know, worldwide that people are realizing hey, we don't have it so good and let's stand up	b	Right.

sv	we're living, with these kind of conditions in a world that's advancing as fast as it is	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	I think people are just saying, no way, we don't want anywhere of this.	b	Yeah.

sv	And I think the Catholic religion itself was such a dominant factor, as far as keeping the people down, so to speak,	sd	I thought, it was the other way around.

sv	I mean when you a religion that most of the people go to church and they don't understand when anything is being said yet they're expected to bow down to it, I think that keeps people in sort of line, you know.	sd	I don't quite understand that.

sv	I'm just saying, that, the old church.	bk	yeah,

sv	but just that, I think that it's just Latin countries are slower in coming around.	sd	Well, they actually understood,

sv	they still didn't understand it though, I don't think,	b	Yeah.

sd	And you know, I can't, I don't understand Latin	b	 Yeah.

sv	They're not really sure of what they are. I don't think.	sd	I never really thought of, it that way.

qh	or why do they not, you know, stand up, so to speak, for their rights?	sd	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and yet, you know, they have the same problem where, you know, where kings and such,

sv	they've, their very vocal.	aa	yeah .

qw	So, what's the difference?	sd	Idi Amin was, you know, in power for so long.

qw@	So what makes the difference between, say I mean, South Africa and it is rest of Africa? * slash error Yeah. / * b	sv	racial, I think ,

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know about education

sv	I think they tend to be more educated, much more, educated than Africa or the Latin American countries.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I know that Russia, they're comparably better educated than we are, in our country.	b	Really.

b	Yeah .	sd	and I've been sort of disappointed how that they say literacy rate has gone down, you know,

br	In our country?	aa^m	In our country,

b	Yeah.	sd	that is really upsetting

sd	Well, that's just it though, good education.	b	Uh huh.

qh	are we willing to pay for it, you know,	b	Yeah.

qy^d	So you have a child two years old in child care right now. * slash error Uh huh.	ny	Yeah

sd	and he just turned three months.	ba	boy.

sd	So, we're just starting into hunting for child care.	ba	Yeah.

sd	Right now, both of us are students.	bh	Are you?

sd	University of Southern Mississippi.	ba	No kidding.

b	Yeah.	qy	are you going to, put your son in child care in a year or two?

sd	actually spring semester a year from now he's going to have to be in child care five days a week more than likely. depending on how my class schedule runs	b	Yeah.

sd	because my wife will be doing her internship that semester.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It will be forty hour week, no, eight to five type of thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	once a day this overlap happens where we can't, one of us be home.	b	Yeah.

sd	So for about twenty, thirty minutes a day we got a baby sitter comes in.	ba	Well, that's a good experience, I think,

b	Uh huh .	sv	and what we found, to be the best guide was our own instincts about, people who were going to be loving

b	Yeah.	sv	and, that's more important than anything else.

b	Uh huh.	sd	she goes to a home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They've been here probably thirty, forty years.

b	Yeah.	sd	They've got three daughters.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And our daughter is healthy, happy, well adjusted and enjoys going to see her friends,

b	Yeah.	sd	so it's a good experience.

ba	that makes a big difference.	sd	if it's good,

aa	Yes.	sv	And if it's, a loving environment, I think it's very good

b	Yeah.	sd	but, we feel real fortunate

sd	There's a lot of child care available, but invariably there's waiting lists.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we were a little slow getting on the waiting list with okay, the university's, department of, their Home Ec Department	b	Yeah.

sd	But, they have a pretty good size waiting list.	b	Yeah .

b	Uh huh.	sd	Out here at Manford, they have you know, a, a, a real good facility

b	Yeah.	sv	So you know, it's a, it's a, it's an important, decision,

b	Yeah.	sv	and I think this really is buyer beware. Well, it is the best way to do it, interestingly.

sv	a cottage industry's the best way to do it really,	sv	I think that, my own interest in human development leads me to believe that that's a good sign and that, private enterprise is the way to go and that it will lead to a fundamental change in the way we learn.

b	Yeah.	sv	Because, I think what we're going to go to is much more commercial entrepreneurial learning ventures in the market.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Primary skills which turn out to be the most important skills in life.

sv	And it's amazing how much good things like, Sesame Street will do.	sv	it's phenomenal.

sd	You know if it's informal I'd probably choose something, I mean, just like hamburgers or steaks out on the grill * slash error two utts because that's a lot of fun, especially this time of year where it's so nice out. / * sv	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I'd probably go with lasagna, a green salad, and garlic bread.	b	I see.

sd	but, it's kind of the bible of cooking for me.	b	Uh huh,

sd	Then I have some from like church that are more family recipes that are more useful . You know, budget cookbooks,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but and, of course, you get a lot from when you're growing up.	b	Uh huh.

sd	of course I've added several different recipes,	b	Right.

qw	but, what you serve or what would you ,	sd	Well, I, I think we come from different backgrounds,

ba	Well, that's good .	sv	have different perspectives that you are.

b	Uh huh.	sd	because it has almost everything in it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	What we've found very useful is a book called THE THIRTY MINUTE COOKBOOK,

ba	that would be wonderful in these times .	b	yeah,

sv@	either they're really fast or , * slash error Uh huh.	sd	but they're, but they're interesting they're interesting menus, combinations that nobody thought of.

qw	What's one of your favorites?	^h	gee,

ba	sounds too good.	sd	and that was, you know, that's, that's certain you can do in thirty minutes.

b	Yeah.	sd	But there are a whole lot of, you know,

aa	that THIRTY MINUTE COOKBOOK.	sd	THIRTY MINUTE COOKBOOK.

sd	I find a lot of the cookbooks I don't know, that you buy over the counter ask for really strange ingredients, or things I don't keep on hand all the time	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I want to use simple recipes that I have things on hand,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't have to run to the store to buy or look for something I haven't heard of .	aa	Yes,

sd	That's why sometimes I shy away from, more of a traditional cookbook	b	Uh huh.

sd	Food is one of my favorite things too.	b	Yes.

qo	Anything else you wanted to add?	sd(^q)	Well, you had said dinner, you know, you know,

ba	wow.	sd	the inspiration was a combination of Julia Child for the dessert, you know, a chocolate mousse recipe and a sort of cookbook which has a recipe for a thing called chicken marabella which is this wonderful thing you can do,

b	Uh huh.	sd	basically you're baking chicken in an open pan, having marinated it first

b	Uh huh.	sd	marinated in olive oil and some seasoning, and cooked with some olives and some prunes,

ba	That sounds good.	sd	comparatively.

ba	That sounds really good.	sd	I just love ,

sd	I'm pretty simple right now,	sv	Well, maybe a little more leisure time to do it.

aa	Yes	h	I don't know,

sd	and they won't eat, you know, too many different foods right now.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	Well, there again, sometimes it was easy,

sd	Spaghetti's a pretty staple every other week or so	b	Yes.

sd	and it goes a long ways too.	fc	Well, nice talking to you Cheryl.

fc	Talk to you later maybe.	fc	Bye.

qy	do you have any special interest in, space flight?	ny	yeah.

b	Uh huh .	sv	I suspect a lot of people, got, turned on by watching those go off.

b	Uh huh.	sv	very exciting.

b	Yeah.	sd	I've always, wanted very much, to, be somehow involved in all that. And, to, meet and to see it actually happen.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Of course, I've really wanted to actually manage to get into space someday.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, that seems rather unlikely at this point, unfortunately.

qw	What do you do now?	sd	computer programmer .

b	Oh.	sd	Unfortunately, that can be done from the ground .

ba	To bad, / * spelling: too	aa	Yeah.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	frustrating at times.

b	Uh huh.	qw^d	I don't know what you think about all that.

sd	there's a lot that's happened in my lifetime as far as, you know, with the space shuttle and all. Although plans to, go to other planets have somewhat been thwarted in comparison to, the sixties.	b	Uh huh.

sd@	I kind of wonder if it were possible to market some, form of, space technology, you know, to make it equitable, it might severely help the economy, you know, in the, respect that , you know, there's endless amounts of research to be done. Endless amounts of resources * more than one utt and whatnot,	b	Yeah.

sv	it would be great if we could find some way to, use that to boost the economy.	sv	I've always, felt that, one of the long term solutions that, at least a few of our problems would be to have, some sort of, solar power satellites up.

b	Uh huh.	sd	because that's a, you know, singularly renewable resource that doesn't require, any particularly nasty environment impact.

aa	Exactly.	sd	And you can just get as much power as you need up there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's just a matter of how big you build it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, of course, the side effects of this is that you have to have, lunar mining bases and space stations and easy transport into space and no things that I think we should be doing.

bf	so you're talking about positive side effects then.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I understand.	b	Right.

ba	that makes a lot of sense.	sv	The only problem is, of course, that, that requires significant commitment from people to actually decide they want to put things like that up there.

b	Yeah.	sv	And they want to do the research

b	Yeah.	sv	the only commitments that they're interested in making or even talking about are ones for flash value like, the trip to Mars. Which would, would produce some useful scientific research and so forth,

aa	exactly.	sv	but the same money could probably be far better spent on, lunar bases and solar power satellite research and, you know, so forth.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it would de , it would be being done for the, glitz and show factor to get politician votes instead of for, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	we should eventually send people to Mars but not just because it's glitzy to do so.

b	Right.	sv	We should do it for, for the return we get for it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, unfortunately, that's not what I thinks happened . / * listen

aa	Exactly.	sd	I would settle for the glitz if the side effects were useful, like the,

b	Yeah.	sv	the downside of that is after you do one of those, people say well we did it.

b	Right.	sv	Now let's now we're done .

^2	Now we're done.	sv	No need to play around with this space stuff anymore.

sd	I don't do a lot of it.	sd	Well, I do love to fish.

sv	maybe I can learn something.	arp	Well, I don't know how much you can learn.

qy	Do you?	ny	Yeah.

sd(^q)	He said, I don't think that's the different kinds of fishing they're talking about .	sd	Well, I hope it is,

sd	That's about the only kind I know how to do.	sd	I don't do a lot of deep sea fishing,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I do a lot of fishing for, bass.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then when I get tired of them outwitting me, I fish for catfish

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we use worms and shiners, which is pretty much like minnows a little bit bigger than minnows,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I also use spinner baits and plastic worms.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It all depends on what I'm fishing for, and the time of day.

bf	Well, it sounds like you do quite a bit of it.	aa	I do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Fishing's a good way to do that,

qy	Do you have a boat?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I wish I had a boat,

sd	The ones around here are so big, that you can fish off the dock	b	Uh huh.

sd	but unless you have a boat you can't really get into where they call the good fishing holes, you know.	b	Right.

qy	Is it?	na	You have to get back in the sticks in the,

sd	I catch a lot of little old, I think they call them perch	aa	Right.

sd	and then the, turtles try to eat up all my bait .	b	Oh.

sd	So it's so close to the dock that I think all I do is feed them a little bit	sd	We don't have, We don't have a big problem with turtles,

sd	but it's kind of fun.	sd	but we do have a awful lot of snakes in our lakes.

sd	 I would be afraid of that.	sd	And I, Well, I can't think of a time that I've been fishing that I haven't run into one or two of them.

qy	Do they ever get on your hook?	nn	No,

qy	Are they poisonous snakes?	sd	we have a lot of cotton mouth,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they live in little coves that I like to fish in,

sd	I think I'd be a little bit afraid of those.	b	Yeah,

sd	But it looked so bad	b	Yeah.

sd	but we sure felt like it was hurting us, just being there, you know .	aa	Definitely.

sv	But they're scary looking.	qy	Do you have bass?

sd^e	I think that, probably around here people fish for bass and crappie and catfish more than anything else.	b	Right.

sd	Now, they have a lot of bass tournaments.	sd	Well, we have those.

b	Uh huh.	sd	inevitably, if I enter one of those, I never catch a thing.

ba	no.	sd	I just go out there and sit and watch other people do it.

sd	and all those people are here for the tournament, you know.	ba	yes.

sv	they're really into it to try to win.	aa	Yeah,

sv	The peace and calmness is really relaxing.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's what I do a lot.

qy	so do you all keep a budget?	nn	No,

qy^d^m	You don't?	nn	No,

qrr	or are you serious?	sd	I'm being facetious.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I kind of look at it for more of a,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Got our businesses and, and our life in line, how to manage credit cards, how to put away, say for, you know, money markets and this kind of thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, there's some freebies out there

b	Yeah.	sd	That being money market, bonds, , savings, or just a liquid account which we do.

b	Uh huh.	ad	you should always have three months of your salary in a savings account in case there's a major need for that.

b	Uh huh.	b	Okay.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	Some of them are there to pacify situations.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	But, I guess we kind of got away from about the last sixteen months as far as saying, two hundred dollars for food and three hundred dollars for this and two hundred for that because we had a child which is about a year old,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I've been developing it,

sd	But, we don't, you know, live in a brand new house, either, maybe a ninety, hundred thousand dollar house	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we're in a thirty year old house that would probably sell for forty five thousand.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We're still paying trying to pay those off.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we have one car payment that I think we have about thirteen months left on it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it'll work out perfect.	qy	Do you have your, loans through the Texas Credit Union?

sd^e	we don't.	bk	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	If you go up there and write them a two thousand dollar check it doesn't all go towards principal.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They take out for the finances the finance charge, which is kind of, you know,

b@	 Uh huh.	sd	it's like one of these lose or swim type of credit,

b	Really.	sd	I don't know what your percent is on your car payments

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they'll take any T I non credit union loan like if you have a fourteen percent loan for a new car.

b	Uh huh.	sd@	They'll take it and refinance it and put it with Texas Credit Union at I think it's a ten and a quarter percent. Which is not a bad deal.

b	Uh huh.	sd	One of the secretaries we have down here is paying twelve percent through G M A C or something.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she's doing it.

qy	Does she have to pay to have it refinanced?	ng	I think they even cover that because they want you as a they want the T I er to be part of the credit union.

sv	so five years ago we probably looked like real ding dongs, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	But we learned a good lesson.	sv	Well, five years is not that bad of a problem only because you're paying more interest,

sd	but would have only been about twenty dollars a month higher,	bh	really.

sd	so I wasn't paying as close of attention.	b	Sure.

sv	and he has a lot of wisdom on that, just on Biblical, you know, principles to finance.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And if we do take out a loan on a house in the future, what we'll do is pay twice a month on it, because you save a lot in interest, just doing that.	aa	Yes.

b	Right.	sv	and you need to be very careful,

b	Right.	sd	because you'll save fifteen to seventeen years off the end of the loan.

b	Right.	sd	I'm sorry, seven to nine years off the end of the loan.

b^r	Right.	sd	And there is a local firm that'll actually,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	the interesting thing, we're getting ready to have a house built

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's not, a lot of the firms that offer,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You can ask and you can wheel and deal,

b	Yeah.	sv	It's a great idea.

b	Uh huh.	fe	man.

b	Yeah.	sd	And you can figure up exactly when like the eighteenth month of a loan, if you make like a four hundred dollar payment over and above your house payment it'll make,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it has a magic with numbers.

sd	You know, he does that full time with the bank, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so we're going to use people that we're in a relationship with that we know, that, you know, we know are people of integrity.	b	Sure.

sd	and we didn't do any of those things.	bf	Somebody you trust.

b	Yeah.	sd	I got taken on firewood.

b	Really.	sd	I mean, the guy shorted us a half a cord of firewood,

ba	my.	sv	Absolutely pathetic.

sd	so I don't think it would hold any , Anyway.	b	okay,

sv	Maybe my husband should call today.	sv	Might be a good idea, because you're going to get, what, a check,

fp	Hello.	fp	Hello .

sd	and I'm in Richardson, Texas.	fp	I'm Nola

qy^d	I guess we're going to have a lot of parades this weekend in honor of these guys that did some stuff over in the Gulf.	ny	Yeah,

ny	Yeah,	bk	okay.

sd^t	I haven't pushed one yet.	b	Okay,

sd	we're just sort of getting acquainted here.	b	okay.

sd	you know, I just wanted to see if, you know, you had an opinion about this,	b	Uh huh.

co	so, if that's okay with you, then I'll just press one.	aa	That will be fine.

fp	Well, hi, .	fp	Hi.

sv	I really do. in a major way because that whole region over there, I think needs to settle it's own differences within itself.	b	Yeah.

sv	They don't understand it as we don't understand the way they live.	b^r	Yeah.

h	and, you know, it. well, that's, that's a couple thoughts on it.	b^r	Yeah.

ad	I guess, you know, I'd like you to maybe express something here.	aap	Well I, I think overall that's right.

b	Yeah.	sv	somewhere in there someone's going to have to learn a different way.

b	yeah.	sv	You know, an, I think that,

sd	I mean that was one thing, that came out of it, good or bad,	b	Yeah.

sv	it's just a war.	b	Yeah.

sv	and that's going to solve the whole problem.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's going to be them,	sv	But, that's the type of thing they understand.

b	Yeah.	sv	They don't understand any other way.

sv	that's true too,	sv	They wouldn't have understood anything than what we did in the war.

sv	they understand violence.	sv	There was nothing else.

sv	they just adored him, because he was so strict and cruel,	b^r	Yeah.

sd	and, you know, for a while there he had them, be ,	sd	I can't figure out why they adored him.

sd	I got to say, that over there,	b	Yes,

sd	and I mean he, he is abounding in kindness, let's say.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, and when you add the, commercialization of the western world it sort of screws everything up for them.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they just really believe in Allah, or God, or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, you know, and, it's almost like,	sv	What's sad is that the leaders that have control are power,

b	yeah.	b	yes,

qy^g	and that's always been the way of the world. Don't you think .	sv	Which I think that that's not the way the majority of the people over there really are.

sv	So it's really hard, when you see the leaders, compared to the people.	sv	But in a way the war, I think in a way all, the involvement over there too, though, has shown that there are a lot of people that don't follow what those few are doing.

b^r	yeah.	sv	and I think we may not have ever have seen that without some of these, newspeople being in there in the broadcasts and the, soldiers leaving, you know, surrendering and, trying to get out of that situation.

sv	you have to have some compassion some humanness.	aa	That's right.

sd	but, you know, for heaven sakes, that's something that's been going on for ages,	sv	and I think so much of it is what you're taught.

aa	that's true.	sv	You know, they teach their children, in such a way that,

bh	Do you?	sd	And although we don't have any criminal actions here, we do have other, lawsuits that do go to trial from time to time.

b	Uh huh.	t1	And, when was it,

b	Sure.	sv	And it's very difficult for lay people for somebody who might just, you know happen to be selected in our jury, to understand what we're talking about.

sv	Well, I do think that the cases say something like Texaco versus Pennzoil,	b	Uh huh.

sv	or the Texaco Pennzoil problem, is ridiculous for people just taken off the street to understand, and, really should have some better way where people who understand both the circumstances and the complex issues involved, should handle cases like that.	b^r	Uh huh.

bh	is that right?	ny	Yeah,

sd	I was only on one jury ever, so far in my life,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it seemed to me all the time I was thinking of all these people in the courtroom over the case that involved, a couple thousand dollars I think, it was really just, terrific waste of everybody's time and money.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	And it finally ended up that, even though we had reached a verdict before we were allowed to give it, they settled the case.	b	Oh.

sd	they had settled while we were deliberating.	b	Yeah.

sv	Now, the one thing I did approve of there was that we didn't have to be unanimous because it was a civil case.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so, it was, a good thing that, it wasn't a total waste of time to have a hung jury on a case that trivial.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, I think that the trial in a sense, is kind of a threat to hold over people to try to get them to reach an agreement out of court, because it does cost so much money.	sv	But it's a shame that,

b	Uh huh.	sv	You could feel that you really have a very strong case and that you're very much right

b	Sure.	sv(^q)	so you get a little you know, anxious there and go well, you know, I don't feel that sure

b	Yeah.	sv(^q)	and who knows what the jury will say because sometimes, you know, the juries come down with a result and you go, gee .

sd	I was a witness in a criminal case.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And it was absolutely horrifying to me how that operated because so much evidence was excluded,	b@	 really?

sd	And I knew the people involved, the people who d and the people who, were defendants.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that was just a horrible miscarriage of justice because of the, you know, staying by the absolute strict rules and not allowing things to be presented to the jury, that, were highly irrelevant to the case and could, I thought, have established the defendant's innocence.	b	Yeah.

sv	although I'm a lawyer's daughter and I have lawyer's, and judges on both sides of the family, and uncles and cousins and things like that, I really think that we have gotten into much, too legalistic of society and that we spend far too much on the fine points of the law and far too little on achieving justice.	bh@	Oh really ? Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and we protect him so much,

sv	And it seems to me that a jury can make a much more rational decision if they know somebody had fifteen convictions for a similar crime,	b	Yeah.

sv	but , the likelihood certainly tilts it .	b^r	Yeah.

sd	And, that was one of the things that was not allowed in the, trial I went to,	b^r	Yeah.

 sv	though, one of the two people who gave the perjured testimony, had a long criminal record and had been, you know, a real sleaze bag.	b@	 .

sd	and I know that he would have sold out his mother for, shorter sentence.	ba	Jeez.

sv	and it seems to me that, maybe it's time to just scrap all the case law and go back to general principles . and start over. And then make a legal system that carefully protects people	b	Yeah,

sv	that would be wrongful .	b	Yeah, you know.

sv	Sure would.	b	Yeah,

^2	And you think that would be relevant.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	but they never told us why these two people, hated themselves or if one had done something to, you know, really aggravate the other

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I had a tough time with that

b	right.	sv	I still have a lot of reasonable doubts

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't know that I want to, sit on a jury like that

sd	I think so,	sv	and you'd still, you know,

sv	that's something I thought would be a very good idea of when juries come in they are told just to shut up and listen.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And it seems to me that you'd get a lot more, information if your questions were heard, if you were allowed to ask the witnesses things, or the lawyers things or even the judge.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	But particularly the witnesses.	aa	Right.

sv	They aren't testifying really in their own words,	b	Right.

fp	How are you?	fp	All right.

qy	Well do you have a family budget?	nn	No,

sd	I'm an accountant.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, we were sort of, you know, keyed in on expenses and things like that.	b	okay.

sd	We have a certain budget.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Excuse me. For instance, I control all the household expenses, the groceries, the haircuts, the gasoline for my car, any miscellaneous expenses, baby sitting, things like that.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	And, excuse me, if, it comes the end of the month and I don't have any money, we don't buy any more milk .	b^r	Uh huh

sd	we've been doing it a couple of years now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I really try to stretch my dollars here and there, shopping, at warehouses sometimes, like at Sam's and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but generally, we always make it.	qw	What do you do for the surprise things that you don't necessarily plan for,

sd	and we put a certain amount of money into that every single month whether we need to or not.	b	Oh.

sd	and I can't really remember what it is.	qy	Do you kind of continue, call this like, a part of savings account or a different savings account

sd	You know, every month fifteen dollars is for car fund. You know,	b	Oh.

sd	Like I know that my washing machine is going to go any day.	b	okay.

sd	so if it does it's not going to kill us.	b	Hm.

sv	so it makes those surprises not so difficult to get through.	b	Okay,

sd	Right now, we save about twenty five percent of our pay.	bk	okay.

sd	it's you know, for vacations like I said, for, you know, emergencies like for car, breaks down, something like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we also put money aside for our kids college.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and just this last month we paid off my final school loan.	b	Oh.

sd	We're starting our kids a little bit early.	b	Okay.

qy	Do you, use a lot of credit cards or your checking account when you go out and buy things?	sd	Checking account a lot, not so much credit cards.

b	Sure.	sd	and so pretty much now, we don't use them too much.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Or if it is a purchase, then it's paid off when the bill comes.

ba	That's good.	sd	but that hasn't always been the case .

sv	and it's not deductible anymore.	b	Yeah,

sv	And it seemed like we didn't have enough money when things cropped up, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well the first time we did it, we just took some arbitrary amount that we estimated it would be,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and then we kept track of everything for a month. You know, how much we spent on food, how much we spent on gasoline, how much we spent on everything, and from that built, you know, a cash budget.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't remember what it is now, four hundred dollars for the month, let's say.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and some months it may be different.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the way we set up, you know the amount that we want to save and the amounts that we have to spend for, you know, utilities and, the house payment and all that.	b	Yeah.

sv	those are things you don't really have much control over.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, but again it's a set amount every month. And, on special occasions, I mean birthdays and things like that.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	we don't, we still have fun on things .	b	Yeah.

sd	and then, after we sold the first house, we were left with enough cash that there was enough to make the down payment on this house.	bk	okay.

sd	So, we got out of that one pretty easily .	b	Okay,

sd	my husband, he's the real disciplinarian when it comes to that money usually.	b	Uh huh.

sv	no .	ba	Well, I know,

ba	I know.	sv	you haven't made, big purchases

b@	right. yeah.	sd	But, all those, just monthly payments and stuff that just go out the door

sd	My husband cut himself down to ten dollars a week for his lunch at work.	b	Oh.

sd	I mean, so I'd say at least, two usually three times a week he takes his lunch.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The other times, he'll, I don't know go out somewhere, eat in a cafeteria or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, he found it's so easy to spend five dollars a day on lunch.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That's a hundred dollars a month on lunch.	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's twelve hundred dollars a year just on lunch.	b	Yeah.

sv	I know that or how far your dollar goes probably more than anything has greatly changed.	aa	Yes,

sd	and they compared income at different points in time when the father you know, was a little bit younger and more in his heyday	b	Uh huh.

sd	And even though the son was probably more successful, you know, higher up in the management ladder he was actually making less money when you go by costs of living.	b	Right.

sd	but my dollar went a lot farther.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	and I used to hear stories from my Grandpa,

sd	and now it's over a buck.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I think it's about a dollar fifteen on an average.	b	Yeah,

sd	most of the people I talk to are Texas,	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	This is only my second phone call

sd	but, I'm pretty much out to the things to say.	bf	like social changes.

ny	Yeah.	h	and I don't think this would have anything to do with it,

sv	but even attitudes on clothing and stuff, I know.	b	Yeah.

sd	but. I know, it was hard for me at first,	b	Uh huh,

sd	but now I kind of like, you know, a lot of the bright colors.	b	Yeah.

sd	but now I do like some of these, brighter, fluorescent colors.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I see a lot of, girls wearing sixties clothes.

sv	they just, make their, circle and come back again.	b	Yeah.

sv	So if you hang onto your clothes long enough, they'll be back in style in a few years .	b	Yeah .

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know though,

sd	Well, thinking back, I think the only style I hope doesn't come back is bell bottoms.	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)	I guess when I look at pictures of myself in the bell bottoms I say God.	b	Yeah,

qy	Cindy, you there?	ny	Yeah.

qw	what kind of dinner parties have you had?	sd	Well, I've had them, where I've served up to twelve to sixteen people.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I had help with them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I had, just different, side dishes and appetizers

b	Uh huh.	sv	I guess you could use the hot if you wanted to.

bf	Whatever you like,	aa	Yeah.

aa^m	Yeah.	ad	And, you put that in

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then, like, I just put them in little balls and bake them for about fifteen minutes

ba	that sounds delicious.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	sd	It's making me hungry for them right now.

sd	but they're just made out of the beef, you know. And, with spices and things in them. But never anything mixed with Bisquick.	bh	Have you?

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, when I've had so many people, to feed, like I try to do a ham and a turkey

sd	that's my, that's my parties mostly is at Christmas time and Thanksgiving time.	b	Yeah.

sd	and then I just sliced them. You know, and had macaroni salad with, shrimp in it.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you ever had that?	nn	No.

sd	and it's, in your macaroni salad that you make.	b	Uh huh.

sv	The shrimp just gives it a really good flavor.	ba	I'll bet.

sd	I don't like the can, but the fresh.	b	Yeah.

sv	that was really good.	sd	I like things that are easy and, nutritious.

sv	But, at, Christmas time we just have a regular sit down dinner, you know. Which is kind of hard because you got so many people	b	Uh huh.

sv	it seems like everything on your plate's cold.	sd	I know.

sd	you can, always take your plate and just heat it up, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, I have, like, maybe just another couple over for dinner.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, other than, than that I don't have, you know a whole bunch of people like except at Christmas	b	Yeah.

sd	and I have my family.	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it just makes it a lot nicer where a don't spend all my time in the kitchen.

b	right.	sd	And, Spaghetti

sd	I always like to have that, too.	b^m	Yeah.

sv	Everybody seems to like that, too.	aa	I know,

sv	everybody likes that.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, then, if you have a nice big roast that you can throw in the oven, then you can put your potatoes and carrots or whatever else all in there, you know. Especially if a pork roast.	b	yeah.

sd	That's what I love, with my d ,	sd	I like it, too.

sd	And, other than that, in fact, I'm just thinking of what next weekend when the Super Bowl's on	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I just, had been thinking what to have for that .	b	Yeah.

sd^e	not yet .	bk	okay.

sd	I want something that I can just take them and serve them while they're sitting in front of the T V.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, so, I'll think of something, just that we can munch on over there, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	And they can just fill their plate up at intermission and then go back over there and sit down.	ba	And that's the way to do it, too.

b^r	yeah.	sv	you know what's I think so nice is in this day and time that we can have good food that's good for you

b	Yeah.	qy^g	And, And it makes an awful lot of difference, doesn't it?

o	Okay .	qw	Well, what do you is think is the main change in?

sd	I'm twenty nine.	b^m	You're twenty nine,

sd	like I know, when I was young most mothers pretty much were housewives, and stayed at home with the kids,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and to me it seems like its almost the opposite now where the woman is working and, and they, you know, take the children to child care,	b	Uh huh.

h	or maybe they work part time or something.	b	Uh huh,

sv	So, that seems to be a pretty big change.	b	Yeah,

b	right.	sv	it's funny,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't think, changes are still progressing,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, if I had to somewhat abstract about it, it seems to be the major change has been that woman have acquired more choice.

aa^r	That's true.	sv	I mean, that's sort of the meta, the meta change as it were. where that woman really have more of a choice now about what they do.

b	Uh huh.	sv	course, they find that the choice creates its own hardships in a way because life is not quite as simple even if it is for your, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but, it does seem

sv	Well, I know, the choice to either work or to be a mother is probably pretty difficult because I think women just naturally tend to have those instincts that you know, you protected the children, and you want to be with the children,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	yet there's so many material things to be had out there that a lot of people think, but, if we both work, we can get a really big house, and we can have two really nice cars, we can take a vacation, we can do this,	aa	Yes.

sd(^q)	it's kind of like, well, you know, she didn't go to college, and she's just a housewife.	b	Right.

sv	Even though there's probably women with M B A's, maybe even Ph D's, that are staying at home with the children.	sd	Well, I only know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I have a lot of respect for her, because she made it as a real choice.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She really knew that she didn't have to do that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, she wanted that role.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I feel that a lot of, women don't,

b	Right.	sv	and then you, and then it's not a choice anymore.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and frankly, it's the way that men are.

b	Uh huh.	sv	they don't feel this choice.

sd	but, there's a T V show where the man is the one raising the kids, and the wife is,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, but, there is a T V show out there.	sd	I didn't happen to see that.

sd	Because I know there are cases of where that happens	aa	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they were very apologetic about it

sd	When, you know, the husband's the one at home raising the children, the mother works,	b	Yeah.

sv	that's not real surprising.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sd	They can have paternity leave, as well as maternity leave.

sd	because, one of the area supervisors, in my area, as a matter of fact, took off, for a couple of weeks, when his wife had their baby.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now it might have been just to take care of her and the baby, instead of having you know, a, a nurse, or someone come in, or, or something like that, mid wife or whatever they call it that they have for the first couple of weeks.	b	Yeah.

sd	but it might have just been him describing the fact that he was taking vacation days to go be a father for a little while,	b	Uh huh,

sd	But, I'm not real sure how that goes.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	I mean, my friends who are having children are having them at age thirty.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, if I'd been a couple of generations ago, they would have had kids running around by then.

sv	so I'm sure I'll be you know, one of those women in her thirties when I get around to ever getting married and having kids.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think, I think that's getting a little more common too.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	And, I think, most people make better parents when they are a little bit more mature.

aa@	I agree . I agree.	sv	I really do.

sd	and then it gives her a little more option if she wants to stay home with the children while they're young, and, be a mother for awhile,	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, she's kind of got that option, if they wait till later, they've saved up some money,	b	Yeah.

sv	it's not as difficult for her to stay at home with the kids and live off one income, or something.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I really am.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I have other things to complain about,

sv	I seem to see more women in leadership type roles and management positions, in politics,	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	It really is.

sd	Like the Mayor of Dallas is a woman.	ba	really!

sv	And, I'm sure that twenty years ago that never would have happened,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think, she's going to, not going to run again after this.	b	Uh huh.

h	but, you just start hearing more and more.	b	Yeah.

sd	In fact, the Governor of Texas is a woman, too .	b	Oh .

sd	We can't forget that one.	qw	what's her name?

sd	Ann Richards.	aa,ar	No,

sv	so, so, you're starting to see more of that	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I'm sure that one of these days, well look at Ferraro ran for Vice President, and I guess one of these days, we'll eventually have,	aa	That's right

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know if you saw those,

b	Yeah.	sv	And, it was acceptable to say certain types of things to her that she couldn't say back, that kind of thing, which, I, I found myself getting quite enraged about.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, really, that's a previous generation.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's harder to imagine people of our age doing that, and not feeling really stupid.

sv^t	Well, I think we've gotten our five minutes	sd^t	Well, they've gotten their five minutes worth of us.

fc	It was nice talking to you, too.	fc	Okay,

fc	Bye, bye.	fc	Bye, bye.

qw	First, let me ask you, what's the weather like up there to begin with?	sd	Well, well, today, when I got up it was twenty nine degrees.

sv	That sounds more like our winter weather down here.	sd	And we've also had extremely strong winds, fifteen to twenty miles an hour, for the day.

sv	Well, you know, I bet that's that storm we had last night.	bh	Is that right?

sd	And we're expecting another one tonight.	bh	really?

sd	I mean it was raining so hard you could swim down the street.	sd	We had one of those two days ago. but, no rain at all yesterday and, no rain today.

sd	It was heading north.	ba	Thanks a lot .

sv	Well, it was nice today.	qy	was it?

ny	yes.	sv	Well, one thing's for sure we can always discuss the weather,

qy	Well, you know, what they say about the weather here in Texas?	ng	What's that?

sd	if you don't like it, five minutes, it'll change.	aa	yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I grew up in Saint Louis,

qy	Well, tell me, is it normally that cold up there in the Spring?	nn	No,

bh	You're kidding?	nn	No,

qy	are you sure you didn't leave your refrigerator door open?	na	I'm sure I didn't.

b	Um hum.	sd	We had about three or four days of that,

b	Oh.	sv	So it, it really wasn't too pleasant .

sd	Well, I, sincerely hope that you don't have that terrible storm we had.	sd	I hope, not.

sd	I hope, it doesn't reach you up there.	sd	Well, they are predicting rain and thunderstorms,

sv	well, if it's the same as what we had, at least it'll be warmer.	b	yeah.

sv	that, whew, that would be tear disastrous. If you, had that rain storm and freezing weather.	aa	Yes.

b	Oh.	sd	a week ago they had golf ball size hail coming down in one part of the city of Dayton itself.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, then we just had about an inch and a half or two inches of rain in less than an hour.

b	 yes.	sv	So, it wasn't, it wasn't conditions to being out in it

sd	Well, I heard on the news this morning that, one of our local schools, lost the roof of their gymnasium.	bh	Is that right?

sd	And they suspected may have been a tornado.	b	Uh huh.

qy	what do they call them? the, the marching band or something?	ny	Yeah.

sd	had just quit rehearsal about a half hour before.	sv	that was, very fortunate for them because that could have really been disastrous.

aa	and how.	sd	Well, of course this is tornado season,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, northern Indiana, has many tornadoes come roaring across.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, you know, we get a lot of bad weather in this area.

sd	we've had, well, past four or five years, I guess, at least one day during the year when just everything would just close down because we'd have freezing rain.	b	Um hum.

sv	And, of course people down here, they just don't know how to handle themselves	aa	Right.

sd	but, we're don't have the equipment to handle it either.	b	Right,

sv	well all you can do with, freezing rain of course, is spread sand on the ice.	b	Right.

sd	but, you know, we don't even have vehicles that will do that.	b	Um hum.

sd@	they have to get, a truck of sand and, four or five laborers up there just spreading it by hand. * needs slash Well, and then to make matters worse, it destroys your vehicles too.	b	Right.

sd	They mix the salt in with the sand.	sd	but I have learned to do, now that I am alone, is, to carry bags of salt in the trunk of my car.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And then of course kitty litter is also excellent for that. I don't know whether you've ever thought in terms of, that

sd	I'm a dog lover myself.	b	yeah.

sv	I guess it would be.	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh.	sd	He brought him from Dallas.

qh	wasn't that nice of him?	ny	Yes,

sd	I have, a Chowperd myself.	br	a what?

sd	A Chowperd.	sd	Now that one I'm not familiar with.

sd	Well, she's part Chow and part Shepherd.	bk	okay.

sv	But she's the best, the best of both breeds.	sd	I believe,

sd	Well, June, is medium sized.	b	Yes

sd	But she is scared to death of thunder storms.	sd	The minute it would begin to storm, he would just panic.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I had to push him down when he was fourteen,

b	Oh.	sd	And, then there was no point in having all my acreage.

ba	that must be nice.	sv	well, it was great.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so this little dog has plenty of room to run.

ba	Well, good.	b	Yeah,

sv	well, now, you know, it sounds like you ought to be in a condo down in Miami Beach somewhere. Or better yet, down around Saint Petersburg, Florida.	bh	Is that right?

sd	That's what I call home.	bh	is that right?

sd	I lived there for ten years.	sd	well I was there once way back in nineteen sixty, I think for just a week's vacation.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, that's about the only time I've been to Florida, except passing through on the way to someplace else.

sd	Well, I lived there in the seventies.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have two sons still living down there.	b	Um hum.

b	uh huh.	sd	And, course there too you never know what the weather's going to be.

sv	Well, that's, that's why I was suggesting, that Saint Petersburg got, got to be the finest weather in the world.	bh	is that right?

sd	Course you could always tell which were the natives and which ones were the snowbirds.	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess tonight's subject is, woodworking.	qw	What kind of woodworking do you do?

sd	Well, kind of, mainly the woodworking I've done lately is, made like, for example a little nativity scene. not the whole figurines and so forth, but mainly the stable, put some shelves in and some odd stuff around the house	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about yourself?	sd	well, I like to think of it as a hobby, but I guess also, partly out of necessity. Just repairing things around the house.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's also a way of relieving stress.

qy	Do you think you would be able to do some more if you had more tools and different tools?	ny	well, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	gotten a good belt sander

b	Uh huh.	sd	The latest project that I've been working on and this has been kind of sitting here for a few months is a cabinet to put a T V in.

bf	a entertainment type center?	aa	Right.

b	Oh.	sv	And it, works well because you can design it to suit whatever equipment you have

b^r	right.	sd	And, that's worked pretty well.

sd	And also with a router, you can, make ornamental facings, too better than a just straight wood edge. And,  And, casings and so forth that are real nice,	aa	That's right.

sv^r	That's good.	sd	But what I need next is a good table saw.

b	Yeah .	sd	And I debate whether it's better to get just a straight table saw or to get one of these, rotary arm saws.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it seems to me the radial arm saw is better,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, you set the wood down

b	Yeah.	sv	Whereas if you're ripping wood, you're probably better off with a table saw.

sv	a table saw does take excuse me a lot of space and is a pretty big investment.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I used to put all the stuff in my basement,

sv	and it's kind of, hard to get, shop space unless you have a dedicated shop or a dedicated room for that.	b	Yeah.

h	so, I don't know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's a great stress reliever.	qy	Have you ever used a lathe?

sd	and our head football coach, Dennis Muir , used to be an assistant coach at B Y U.	b	really.

sd	So I thought that was kind of an interesting coincidence.	br	So you went to what college?

sd	Northern State University in Aberdeen, South Dakota.	qw	And what did you graduate in?

qw^h	in what major or what year?	b	Yeah,

sd	International business.	bh	really.

qw^d	And you?	sd	I'm going to B Y U,

qw	How long of a program is that?	sd	Forever .

sd	and it said that, like thirty four percent of, college students actually graduate in four years from a four year program.	b	really.

sd	it took me five years.	b	Yeah .

sd	it's just only was three more classes you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	and just doesn't happen that you get out in four years.	b	Uh huh.

sv	if you're going to go to a college where student faculty ratio is three and four hundred to one, I don't think you're going to have as meaningful of a college experience as if you're down to the thirty to forty to one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was about twenty six to one.	b	Really.

b	Yeah.	ba	that's great.

sd	and they knew you.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I's, I, I put that against, my high school where we had, a biology class of three hundred and fifty students	qy^d	Wow, in high school?

ny	Yeah	bk	Oh.

sd	it was a biology lecture class	ba	Wow.

sd	and, you know, you got a computerized test scores, multiple choice, because there's no way they could correct a three hundred fifty point short answer test you know, a three hundred fifty person short answer test.	b	Uh huh.

^q	or should I know you?	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you get, a lot of tutoring,	nn	No .

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there's tons of students in it,

bf	and you still didn't get to talk to him anyway.	aa	Right,

qw	Well, what would be your advice to a parent of a child thinking of attending college?	^h	man. I think your advice is good.

sv	That's excellent advice.	sd	because I didn't,

sv(^q)	You know, you get to the point where I'm never going to get done.	b	Right.

^q	and let me get out of here.	b	Yep.

sd	I went, I turned mine in about twelve hours early at noon.	h	I don't know.

qy	Are you eating?	ad	go ahead,

br	Say what?	sd^r	I just barely got home from the university.

co	and then after five minutes when the, voice comes on, we can talk all night if we want .	aa	Okay,

sv	I actually don't think that we, pay too much in this country. particularly, in this part of the country w ,	aa	I agree with you .

sv	and, it's kind of dumb.	sd	I hate the eight and a half percent sales tax.

sv	Well, I mean, nobody taxes groceries.	ar	yeah,

qw	Where?	sd	In Arizona.

qy	Is that right?	ny	Uh huh.

b	Right.	sv	But that's the politicalness of trying to not create any new taxes.

sd	th , there's no other country that is taxed as low as we are.	sv	Well and I still think that, having lived in Europe for awhile, you know, difference in living conditions are certainly well worth, what we pay for it.

sd	I'm not sure I understand what you mean.	sv	Well, I mean, I think,

b	Right.	sv	and I'd a lot rather pay taxes here and have what we have, then have to live there.

bf	you mean, lowest end of living in spite of higher taxes.	sd	Higher taxes.

sv	probably less so now than it was ten years ago or whatever	sv	Still's that way to some extent.

b	Yeah.	sv	I think the other problem is, you know, it's easy to complain about taxes because there's something you, theoretically, can do something about.

b	Right.	sd	and you're not quite in the same situation

b	Right.	sd	I wish I didn't have to pay any more to my physicians in a year than I had to pay for all of my school taxes.

sd	since, I send my kids to parochial school, that .	b	Yeah,

sd	That's always been a high priority .	ar	No,

sv	I think in places, I think in places like California, people are beginning to find that in areas that are fairly well off, if you add the, people of various sexual persuasions and those who never intend to marry and those who are retired and those are, just looking for fun, people with families turn out to be such a small minority that they can't get a tax bill passed no matter what happens.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, people always used to be willing to ante up for the schools.	sv	Of course, I think with the graying of America, we're going to see that problem in lots of places.

sv	But I think it's sad selfish and shortsighted.	^2	Or build roads.

sd	It's in regards to discussing homes.	b^m	Homes,

sd	and it's in Richardson, Texas, which is north Texas or north Dallas.	b	Right .

sd	We moved here in seventy four and, changed locations in seventy eight.	bk	Okay.

qo	How about yourself?	sd	Well, we, left here in seventy six.

sv^e	it's a nice area.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Are you finding it tough trying to find what you want	sd	Well, the problem we got is that we've got five children

ba	boy.	sd	and so, we really want four or five bedroom house

b	right.	sd	so we look at the paper,

b	Sure.	qy	Are you looking

sd	but anyway, my youngest is getting married this year graduating college,	ba	great.

sd	so I can board up their rooms, and look forward to retirement maybe.	sv	That empty nest syndrome is going to set in, I guess.

sd	so, we're looking forward to retiring in about three years and maybe relocating to Florida or somewhere. closer to our families.	ba	Great.

sd	but my wife's parents are from the New York, New Jersey area	b	Yeah .

sd	but everyone has seem to relocated down that area.	b	yeah.

sv	Seems like a nice place to go .	b	Yeah,

bf	You need very minimum four and probably five.	aa	yeah.

b	Right.	sd	My wife and I can share a bedroom .

qy^g	It's tough to find a five and six bedroom house, isn't it?	sv	I don't think it's possible unless you, you know, multimillionaire, something like that.

sv	and it's that's an awful lot, you know .	aa	yeah.

b	Right.	sv	but I think the thing's out there,

sd	and there were seven kids in her family.	ba	Wow.

sd	but they always seemed to get along fine, you know.	b	yeah,

sv	then I'd go look because women seem to like to look a lot more than men do.	aa	yeah.

b	I understand that.	qw	So. What kind of business are you in?

sd	I represent fourteen different hunting and shooting type companies.	b	yeah,

qw	who are you with?	sd	we're with an organization called, Wycliff Bible Translators.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's a missions organization and, doing, translation, linguistics, that sort of thing.

ba	Well, great.	sd	it's got an office down here in, near Duncanville

qy^d	you say you lived in the Denver area before?	na	Right.

qw	How did that compare with this area as far as housing prices?	sd	we were, really surprised to find that they're higher here.

ba	No kidding.	sd	When we moved from Louisiana to Denver, it was astounding, you know, to find that prices were, I guess almost two or three times as high as we'd expected.

qw	So what kind of weather have you had in Dallas? .	sv	Well, it's been very windy,

sd	I've had to use the air conditioner in March,	sd	we've already had to use that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, you know, I forget from year to year.

b	Yeah.	sd	but I guess, you know, we're just out of March, and, will bring the rain in, April.

qy^g@	but I think it's higher than usual, isn't it? Yeah,	ny	Yes,

sv	nor , I think the weather overall has been, like you said, probably a little bit warm	sv^2	A little bit warm and a little bit blowy, I think.

sv	so it's real hard to,	^2^g	Really hard to make too big of different comparisons, right?

aa	I know.	ny	Yeah.

sv	and I wish it would stay like this all the time .	aa	Yes,

sv	And, gah, I don't think we can say anything else really.	aa	I don't think we can either,

fc	Well, you have a nice day.	fc	You too.

fc	And we'll talk to you later.	fc	Bye bye.

qw	What type of things do you feel would invade your privacy every day?	sd	Well, I don't like it when, people listen to my phone conversations, like if they're outside my door while I'm talking in my room , or when people like look through my things in my bedroom .

sv	That is really an invasion of privacy.	b	Yeah.

sd	I find it very annoying when I've worked all day to come in and my phone to ring constantly, the solicitors, and the carpet cleaning companies and,	b	Uh huh.

qy	Does that happen in your part of the country?	ny	Yes.

sd	I, I come home	na	Definitely.

sd	and I can't do anything but answer the telephone.	b	Right .

sd	but I don't know what to do to stop it.	b	Right.

sv	They would think it didn't mean them, I guess.	sv	I guess not,

^q	Everybody but me .	b	Yeah .

qy	do you live at home with your parents?	ny	Yes.

b^m	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	So your privacy is invaded probably by other members of the family.	ny	Yeah,

qw	Now what can you do to stop that?	sd	I don't know.

aa	No.	b^m	No.

qy^d	Just have to live with it, I guess.	ny	Yeah.

sv	and maybe they will respect yours	h	Well, I don't know .

qy	Do you have brothers?	nn	no,

sd	and they nearly drove me crazy listening to telephone conversations	sd	I used to do that though because I was the youngest,

sd	and then they would go get on the other extension	b	Oh.

sd	but I couldn't get them to hang up, you know.	b	Yeah .

sd	Even in the office I, find that people walk up and when you're on a conversation instead of walking off or just making themselves busy, they'll stand there and listen to what you say until you hang up.	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she'll just sit there and listen like I'm doing something wrong,

sd	Let's see, I can't think of anything else I'd really consider an invasion of privacy other than the phone solicitors.	b	No .

sd	About the only thing that really bothers me I don't have that many people coming to my door.	b	Right.

sd	and we live in a neighborhood where there is not any little kids to bother me, since mine are all grown up,	b	Oh .

sv	Well, I guess traffic could be an annoyance.	aa	yeah.

qy	Do you have a lot of traffic in your area?	na	it can get busy,

sd	and you would like to, feel like it's an invasion of privacy because you can't even ride down the road without people all the way around you, you know.	b	Yeah,

sv	and pretty noisy.	b	Yeah .

sv	It really is.	b^r	Yeah.

sd	because at first you'd hear a lot of noise, especially at night you know, when you go to bed.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I guess I have gotten used to it because I don't even hear it anymore.	aa	yeah,

sd	And, I just close it out, I guess, because I don't remember waking up in several years at night when I'd hear a fire truck go by, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think they would probably have to pull into my drive before it bothered me .	b	Yeah.

qy^d	They would have to chop down the door and get you out, I guess. .	ny	Yeah.

qw	Let's see. What else is an invasion?	sd	I had an old boyfriend who looked through my notes one time .

b	Oh.	sd	I was mad because those were mine ,

qy	Well, did you have has name all over them?	nn	No .

bf	That was yours.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	so that was upsetting.

qy	Do you have a bunch of factories and stuff out there?	na	we've got quite a few, actually.

qy	you mean for like smog and stuff?	ny	Uh huh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they're blurred,

qo	What do you think of the greenhouse effect that's going on?	sd	Well I guess that's the fluorocarbons

sd	that's causing the hole in the ozone.	aa	Uh huh.

qy^g	it is scary though, isn't it?	ny	yeah.

b	Right.	sd	I mean, maybe, one snow.

qy^g	That's up there by Kentucky, isn't it?	br^m	Kentucky?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	North Carolina is all the way on the east coast.

b	Okay.	sd	It's further west than Georgia,

sd	But Kentucky, we use to have I mean, just real cold, cold winters	b	Uh huh.

sv	They freak out when there's snow on the ground .	b	Uh huh.

br^m	Amarillo?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	Well that's close to here.	aa	Yeah,

qw	How long have you been in Raleigh?	sd	I've been out of Texas about ten years.

qw	Well, how old are you?	sd	twenty, seven.

sd	Well, we're the same age.	bh	really?

^g	Okay?	b	Uh huh.

sd	and traffic slows down to nothing.	sd	Actually, they've been doing the same thing here.

sv	and of course the people down in south, they're not used to cold weather and stuff,	b	Uh huh.

sv	And you know, you can have snow on the ground and not be slick on the road .	aa	That's true.

sd	Now of course, you know, T I is here, Oscar Mayer	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't see much pollution going on.	sd	Well, you know, what irks me is these cars that are driving down the road,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you have that black smoke coming from their tail pipe.

sd	Well, see, they have what is it a test, or something like that they call it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, that's supposed to cut down on it.	nd	Well,

bf	school buses and the commercial buses,	aa	yeah.

sv	Well, they're burning that diesel fuel is what it is.	aa	yeah,

sv	And, it gets bad.	sd	Well, you know what they've started doing is instead of the tail pipes being at the bottom of those buses they've started putting them up at the top,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that way it gets above, other cars on the road

sv	Well, that's a good idea.	sv	and, it really does make a difference, although it settles, you know,

sv	Well, the, you know, pregnant women aren't supposed to walk along a highway because of that smoke fumes.	ar	No,

sd	I was walking home from, the college I was going to in Kentucky.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I'd be real tired anyway just from walking along the highway.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's probably a lot worse now.	aa	I'm sure.

b	Yeah.	sv	Well, you can really feel it, you know, in your breathing, even normal people,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you know, it's killed several people.

qy	Do you, smoke?	na	actually, I just smoke one in the evening if that.

bk	yeah,	sv	It was kind of funny.

bf	because you do smoke one a day.	aa	yeah,

qy^d	For the air pollution.	na	For ozone, and yeah, all that.

sv	Course, Texas, we don't have a bunch of pollution.	b	Huh uh.

sd	But, too, we've got that air coming in off the coast.	b	uh huh.

sd	And you know it'd blow it up north.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	So, maybe that's part of the reason it's not so bad down here.	b	Uh huh.

qy^g	it would seem like it would be the same way on the California coastline, wouldn't it?	sd	gosh, I think I would hate to live in California, the smog there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, I can't believe they have warnings here, which it's mainly just when it gets real, real hot.

sv	But they usually have that everywhere because of the humidity especially.	bh	Really?

sd	especially, it's usually for the young children and the old people older old people.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	It is?	ny	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sv	it's really pretty here.

sd	well, this is pretty wooded area down here	qy	Is it?

sd	but they've got, you know, down by the Denison Dam there's a lot of,	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	They do?	ny	Yeah.

sd	They live close then.	aa	Yeah,

qy^d	In Durant, Oklahoma?	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	you go to visit them?	ny	uh huh.

bk	Oh.	b	Yeah,

qy	You know what the best indoor purifying plant is for smoke and stuff?	nn	huh uh.

sd	It's a philodendron.	bh	really?

sv	It's supposed to filter the air for you, in your home.	sd	Well, I'm going to have to get some.

sd	My husband bought it for me when my daughter was born four months ago.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I do.	qy	Do you?

sd^e	I do.	qy	Did you smoke when you were pregnant?

sd	I did cut down a lot .	sd	I mean I can understand that, actually.

sd	and smoking, I got in the habit of it when I was about thirteen.	b	Yeah.

sv	and it's so different from Kentucky	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he got me into it.	bk	I see.

qw	How'd you get into it?	sd	I was taking a voice I O class and actually doing some research,

sd	I like talking to new people.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've had to hang up and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I talked to people from, well, what, Carolina now up in, Boston, and New York,	b^r	Uh huh.

nn	No.	nn^m	no,

sd	Boston, Massachusetts .	aa	Uh huh.

sv	I guess, it's because T I s down here.	b	Yeah,

sd	so we went from Kentucky to Louisiana down here to Texas,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and his family's down here.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	We're out of the service now.	qy^d	I bet you're glad.

sd	he went to Panama when Noriega was doing all that.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Dee, are you familiar with the Latin American policies?	ny	Yeah,

sd	so they leave the bats, you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	they take it for granted

sv	you would be safe to say that they were just very very, you know, big into drugs.	sv	Very very corrupt, like the Panamanians were very corrupt.

b	Right.	sd	The thing about it though is the Panamanians is, a lot of servicemen down there.

b	Uh huh.	sd	because I guess there was a big, scam that all these guys up.

b	Yeah.	sv	So, it's like everybody is into it,

b^r	Yeah.	sd	Interestingly in Honduras, It's very pro American.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	my girlfriend used to, be in the Navy

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	In Honduras, very, pro American.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And there's a lot of men, I don't know how many American,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, it's the lesser of two evils,

b	Yeah.	sv	But I don't know how corrupt the Honduran government is.

sv	and so the people are trying to override that, I mean not just the Christians, but all the people because they see when a righteous man is in authority, the people rejoice.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	that's the undoing of everything,

b	Right.	sv	That's the thing that will eventually, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	It is having a good moral background.

b	yeah.	sd	So, I was reading an article in the, National Geographic

b	Uh huh.	sd	they don't have oil or anything,

sd	They don't allow people to move in, like less nations, you know,	qy^d	they don't probably take a lot of refugees from other countries either.

sv	you could just look at it and say they're not going to be able to pay us back.	b	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sv	So we're suckers.

sv	but you don't go making billions of dollars of loans in, to people that you can just look at the situation,	sv	They know they're not going to pay it back.

sv	There's been a real revival in Mexico City since that earthquake, because you know there's a lot of sin in those nations and lots of witchcraft, a lot of witchcraft. A whole lot of witchcraft. So, a lot of it in the name of Christianity.	ba	I can imagine.

sv	and that's pretty of heavy duty.	b	Yeah,

sv(^q)	} you think, wow there is where they did sacrifices to false Gods.	qy	Do you get spooked, you feel,

qy	is this something that concerns you?	sv	Well, I think it does, especially because I just moved to Massachusetts and, they're having real problems because they have so many, police layoffs.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, personally I don't live in a real bad section of town

b	Right .	qo	How about you?

sv	but I know the murder rate is going up every year in Dallas	b	Yeah,

sd	and that worries me.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	and a lot of kids, you know, are caught that way.

sd	there's a little boy just got shot and killed like last weekend down in what they call the projects, which is you know, sort of a bad area.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he got hit and killed by a stray bullet.	b	Yeah,

sv	so you know it must be frus , frustrating for the parents who can't get out of a situation like that.	b	Uh huh

sv	It'd be so scary.	sd	I know they asked in the topic for ideas on how to control crime

sv	I think that's part of the problem.	sv	But, in, on the other hand they have to be because the jails are full.

ad	But I say, you know, they commit crimes let them be overcrowded, you know let them suffer a little bit.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think if they knew it was going to be really horrible, wherever they were going, maybe they'd think twice about doing it.	aa	That's true,

sv	You know, the other thing that worries about it is, kids that are doing such bad crimes so young, you know, like eleven and twelve and thirteen year olds that just go out and kill people.	sd	I know it.

sd	I wonder what the next generation will be like.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, some people prey on that, you know,

b	Yeah.	h	well I don't know,

b	Oh.	sv	So, I guess if they had, more of a deterrent, if they had more severe punishments it might be,

o@	Seems like if they had more immediate, consequences to their actions it would sink in faster . Really,	sv	I think it would concern me even more if I had children, which I don't,

sv	because it seems like now, even in the country, you hear about bad things happening.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they've had some drive by shootings outside of the schools.	b	Yeah,

sd	Me either .	sv	but, that's a scary thing too because at that age kids want so much to belong to a group.

sv	but now they're so much into selling drugs and weapons and all that,	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's pretty scary.	aa	It's true.

bf	those machine guns and all that.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	It's a wonder there's anybody who's willing to be a policeman anymore.	aa	That's the other thing,

sd	and they keep leaving.	b	Yeah.

bf	, they figure, what a heyday, .	sv	This is a depressing conversation though .

fc	But it was nice talking to you .	fc	Okay,

fc	same for you.	fc	Bye bye.

o	Okay	sd	There we are.

ad	tell me about the car that you've got.	sd	Well, I have a Honda, hatchback, nineteen eighty four.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I had a hatchback, a nineteen seventy eight version before this one.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And, I'll be honest with you.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And, I can carry more in that trunk area in my little Honda than I can in the big cars,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I can carry as much in my Honda or more than I can in those other bigger cars.

sd	and surprisingly it's also an eighty four	qy^d	L X?

br	I'm sorry what?	qy^d	It was an L X?

sd	it's not a hatchback,	b	Uh huh,

ny	yeah	b	Uh huh.

sd	Big roomy trunk	b	Yeah.

sv	I think they're extraordinarily reliable cars.	aa	Yes,

sd	and I have a daughter that lives down in North Carolina	b	uh huh.

sv	and it's just an absolutely wild highway.	sv	Ninety five is wild in any car.

b	Yeah	sd	because I, I run over to Crystal City, or used to,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I'm very much aware of the crazy driving that goes on over there.

sd	so having precious cargo in the car with me , as you can well imagine, it's very hard for me to imagine that, a Honda's going to be as safe a car as the one that I've got my eye on, which is a Volvo.	b	Uh huh,

sd	in fact, quite frankly I've owned a Volvo in the past,	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I guess that's one thing that recommends the Honda to a lot of people, is there's just very little that you have to do under the hood,	aa	Yes,

sv	It's really amazing.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's, ,	^2	Beautiful, beautiful machine.

sv	and I think that it's very surprising some of these very expensive Volvos can be gotten for a lot less money than you would think if you're willing to buy ones that are about, the vintage of the cars that you and I currently own	bh	Is that right,

sd	You can still get, even the low end wagons, for less than twenty thousand dollars	b	Uh huh.

sd	in the Washington area, of course, being as affluent as it is, there are lots and lots of Volvo dealerships down here	b	uh huh.

sd	and so, } anyway, and that's the other thing is that I've never really been too terribly much of a new car person.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's I mean, an eighty four.	sd	Well, my eighty four just has seventy seven on it

b	Yeah.	sd	and I've made many trips to Washington and down to Virginia Beach, Virginia, where my mother lives, and things like that,

qy	you ready for this?	ny	Yeah.

sd	we get to talk about the weather .	sv	The weather this time of year has actually been kind of unusual.

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know.

bh	you do	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	so you, you probably go everywhere and have all sorts of weather.	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	I imagine it's kind of an experience also trying to land and take off in the weather.	na	Well, it was around here last night,

sd	Well, actually I'm, I've heard on the news that we, will be setting a record here in the State of Texas for the, large amounts of rain and moisture we've had this year, that it's going to break all kind of records that were set, set back since nineteen thirty two.	bh	No kidding.

sv	and I understand it's supposed to rain until Saturday night.	sd	Saturday or Sunday they were saying,

b	yes.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, approaches to low minimum both times

ba	Wow.	sv	and Phoenix never gets that kind of weather

qy	And so are you an airline pilot?	ny	Yes,

ba	great.	sd	for Southwest,

sd	I have a brother that's a pilot, also, with American.	bh	is that right?

qy^d	So I imagine with all this kind of weather it, makes it kind of dangerous for you.	ng	Well, now, I wouldn't call it danger.

aa	yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it's not like it is in the spring time.

sv	and it's spectacular the thunderstorms and rain storms you get in the spring time, the torrents of rain.	aa	Spectacular is the right word for them.

br	Pardon me?	aa^r	Spectacular is a good word for them .

sd	I've never seen a thunder show like I've seen down here before in Texas.	sv	It's amazing.

sd	but you can excuse me, see the lightening going horizontally across the sky and back and forth, and what a light show.	aa	yeah,

sv	it's fabulous.	sd	cloud to cloud it can be really sensational here.

sv	that's true.	qw	Where are you from originally?

sd	and that's a very arid climate, from, Salt Lake City area	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so there was an awful lot of snow,	b	Oh.

sd	and because it was an arid climate, the snow was always a crisp, powder, light snow which made it fantastic for skiing and sleigh riding and everything else.	b	yeah.

sd	So, we had a great time.	qy	Were you near the Park Cities area.

sd^e	in, in Snowbird and Solitude and and Brighton and yes, all those areas.	sv	Beautiful area.

qy	So I imagine, have you skied before?	na	Well, we've skied,

bk	Uh huh.	sd	I've driven through it several times.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we do some skiing there lot of cross country skiing there.

qy	Well, do you think the, the weather is typical for this time of the year?	ng	Well, not really,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, I've been surprised that we haven't seen more of the temperatures that we've got today, you know, that moved in last night.

sv	There was a time, though, in the, middle part of November that got really cool, really, really unseasonably cool	aa	Yes.

sd	and I thought, great	b	Yeah.

^q	it froze in fact.	b	Yeah,

sd	and it's not as severe, I should say as the weather that I've experienced up in northern Utah.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	Down here?	ny	Yeah,

qy^d	Not in Minnesota .	nn	No

sd	and they say, boy, six months out of the year it's bitter cold, and and the wind and the blowing snow and everything.	aa	it is,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they're up over sixty five or sixty ,

sd	And, you know, you really will see people in jeans one day and business suits the next.	sd	Well, I'm kind of that way too.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I get to toting around boxes of documents several times a day,

sd	and, and, you know, if I know that they're going to be there, you know, I try to really watch it and like you say, you know, really dress up	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've been doing a lot of reorganization, you know, the last couple of months the same way you are, you know,	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	and it's just impossible to crawl down on the floor and dig through boxes in a dress.	aa	That's right,

sv	It is	sd	As a matter of fact, I thought I had one funny story

b	Uh huh.	sd	we wore shorts.

ba	no.	sd	And the supervisor from another area came up to us

ba	no .	sd(^q)	He didn't at least say to us, did you know you're not supposed to do that.

sv	It sounds like Mister Power Hungry.	aa	Yeah.

sd	You know, just yesterday, though, I saw a girl in the spine out here at Lewisville that had on a pair of shorts.	b	Uh huh.

^q	This is shorts, you know.	b	Yeah.

^q	It sure would be cool and comfortable to wear, you know,	sd	Well I've seen some people try to just come in like over the weekend because they want to use the TexTeller machine.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	And they have said no .

sv	just because you put on a pair of hose with them doesn't make them not shorts anymore, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well I think T I's dress code is pretty lax considering everything, anyway, you know,	sd	I didn't know that E D S has a very strict dress code,

qy	do they really?	na	definitely.

ba	my God.	sd	it is definitely lined out.

sd	I couldn't afford to work there.	sd	and a particular kind of shoe, you know, so high heel,

ba	no.	sd	When I was looking at her materials when she first started, you know, she had her benefits package and all that kind of stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it told about the dress code

sd	I know, that's it.	b	Yeah,

ba	Wow.	sd	I mean it was like you can't have, you know, such and such facial hair, no beards, you know, and just really detailed.

sv	but it's I do, I can get so much more done if I'm dressed comfortable, you know.	sd	Well the time we were there at the warehouse we felt really bad because we had, another person coming from Washington, our outside counsel.

b	Right.	sd	And she came with skirts, just like she'd be going into the office.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	And we'd try to say, didn't you bring any pants or anything.

b	Uh huh.	^q	and you're going to have unload you skid look at the documents in the boxes and then repack your skid.

ba	yuck.	sd	She finally tried to go buy, you know, a pair of pants

sd	and they're in jeans,	sd	Some of our people in the legal department,

ba	Really, wow.	sd	And then there's another one who's a little younger and a little more yuppish

b	Uh huh.	sd	and sometimes he wears the jacket to it.

b	Yeah.	sd	And some of the patent attorneys have been real casual in their clothes

bh	Isn't that funny.	sd	With you know, the little suspenders or something on

ba	That's great.	sv	but, I think a lot of times it's mainly who they're going to meet with,

b	Yeah.	sd	If there just going to be meeting with T I ers like to talk about a patent kind of thing and they're engineers that they're talking too, they dress kind of like how the engineers are dressed

sv	I mean that's the smart way to do it.	b	Yeah.

h	or it would me, you know.	bf	It's one of those slippery attorneys coming in here.

aa	It really is.	sd	I've done some of the other speech programs,

b	yeah.	sv	So this is a little different.

sd	I'm really looking forward to it.	b	Yeah.

ft	Well thanks a lot.	fw	Okay,

qy	Do we get our money's worth?	sd	Hey, listen, if I had my way, I wouldn't pay my taxes.

qy	did you see SIXTY MINUTES last night?	nn	No,

sv	And, it's staggering.	qo	Well, How did this grab you?

sv	Well, there are a lot of things that people, I think general,	sd	And then it just frosts me terribly.

sv	and and generally, I think what's interesting is that we probably represent the majority of people in this country in terms of their feelings about the government	aa	Absolutely.

sv	and how it serves us given the extraordinarily large sum of money the government has to operate with.	sv	I believe that's true,

sv	I mean, we are going to have to change the people who represent us.	aa	That's correct.

sv	I mean, and I think it's going to be real interesting to see and then force upon them,	^2	Heavy involvement from the public.

sv	right that's I think that's the only thing that's going to change it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Our anger is going to have to give rise to more activity on our part.	b	Yeah.

sv	Most people in this country are getting worse off, not better off.	aa	Absolutely.

sv	That's not a formula for a better society.	aa	No,

sv	And the government really plays a role in this.	b	Uh huh,

ar	I mean, they are the people whose strings are pulled and by I guess powerful intere ,	b	Right,

sd	and people can call in and say what they think about what's going on in this country.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They expect, opening it for one hour, that they'll get three, hundred thousand telephone calls.	sv	I'm sure they will.

sv	And I've thought for years it would make a lot of sense to create an eight hundred number for voters to call and vent their frustration with government. Like one, eight hundred capitol or something like that. You know, just a number you could call from anywhere, anytime.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	and I think we need to create mechanisms to allow us to get involved, like allowing us to call a toll free number and say, hey, look, do it this way, not that way, or I like this, or I don't like that, or this is how I feel about your spending my money on art that I don't think is art.	b	Yes,

sv	So the more we communicate, hey, look, we want a change here, because, you know, as it turns out, we've wasted a tremendous amount of money on our defense spending in this country.	aa	absolutely.

sd	Over a very long period of time.	aa	Right,

b	Right.	sv	You know, there's so much of it going on that it would really, you know, set us into a deeper depression if we knew the whole picture.

o	Okay.	b	All right.

qw^r	What's your view?	sv	Well, I have a hard time thinking that they can control guns. Personally.

sv	You know, even if they give it a shot, it's still going to be black market all over the place, you know,	aa	That's right.

sv	but gun control is probably frowned on quite a bit down there I would think.	aa	Yeah.

ny	Yeah.	sd	I'm originally from Colorado,

b	well. .	sd	there, there's a lot of hunters here.

sd	and man, There's no way I would ever go for a total ban on all weapons.	b	Uh huh.

h	I don't know.	sv	I think it's ridiculous.

sd	I keep a thirty eight in my truck, you know.	bh	Really.

sv	and you know, both areas are pretty crime ridden right now	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's just, you never know who is out there.	b	Right.

sd	and then of course there's the hunting issue,	b	Sure.

qw	What do you do, Jeff?	sd	I'm in, program control for a company up here.

bh	yeah.	ny	Yeah.

bk	All right.	sd	We do schedules, for programs, schedule programs.

b^r	Yeah.	qw	What do you do?

sd	I'm, researcher of Honeywell up here.	bk	okay.

qy	You guys , do you get much of a chance to hunt or anything	ng	I haven't had a chance to do any hunting since I've been down here.

sd	You know that's something I miss quite a bit.	b	Yeah,

sv	I guess that what the scale now is, it's zero for a complete,	^2	One for a total ban and,

sv	I guess I am about eight or nine .	aa	Yeah,

sv	no doubt about it	sv	I mean, if they can anyway get it, keep criminals from having guns which they can't

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, I'm not for it.

sd	I guess they passed a couple of, laws here while back in some states in terms of a waiting period where you know you go to buy a hand gun	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that's a week	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know, you always be able to get around	b	Sure.

sv	I guess some forms of guns should probably be controlled just like I'm not real sure why anybody would need a full automatic weapon.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I think those have been pretty much, you know, banned altogether anyway.	b	Yeah,

sv	It kind of takes the sport out of hunting .	aa	Yeah.

qh	You know, it's like what can you do with that, that you can't do in a self protection situation with like a seven or a twenty shot twelve.	b	Sure.

sv	You know, you might do the same thing.	b	Right.

sv	For me I would much rather have a bow anytime .	b	really.

sv	and I think it's more of a challenge, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	I guess it keeps the shell makers in business.	b	Sure.

sd	Anyway, that's about where I stand .	aa	Me too.

qy	Is it seven o'clock there?	ny	yeah,

qy	You guys central?	qw	How is the weather up there?

sd	It's kind of rainy actually.	qy	Is it?

sd	Around this time of year you expect it up here to get down to about, I don't know, ten or twenty degrees	b	Right.

sd	Ice is starting to melt and stuff like that	b	Yeah.

qw	Where have you been on a wonderful vacation?	sd	Well normally when we go on vacation we go home, to Colorado.

sd	that's where we go home, too.	b	Really.

sd	That's where we go.	ba	How funny.

sd	my husband's family lives just off of Academy Boulevard at Maize land.	bh	Really?

ny	Yes.	sd	We live up, Lake, in the Broadmoor area

sd	and it was twenty seven below.	b	Oh.

sd	So we had to cancel our ski lessons .	b	Uh huh,

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah,

qy	just this year?	ny	Uh huh

ba	my,	sd	they don't have enough money to keep it going,

sv	So that wouldn't be a good spot to go on a vacation, now if you were a skier.	ar	Well you know, well, now I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's only a couple of hours away.

b	No.	sd	I'd like to go on vacation.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but we have two little ones that are under two right now,

b	Yes.	sd	so we want to wait until they're a little bit older to do that,

sd	It was all part of the package.	b	Oh.

sd	and it was really oriented toward little kids.	ba	Well, how fun.

sv	and, you know it was just a lot of fun.	b	yeah,

sd	and then landed at Cape Canaveral and then drove over to Orlando and spent four days at Disney.	ba	Wow,

aa	Yes.	qy^d	And it was all a big package deal where you just pay one price and get everything?

sd	and kids are really cheaper, too.	b	Really.

sd	and the ship that was available, the only, rooms that hadn't been booked were the suites.	ba	Wow.

sd	So we got the suites at the same price as a regular cabin.	ba	 what a deal.

sd	so we turned a seven day trip into ten	ba	Great,

sd	and they paid for everything.	ba	Well, that's great.

aa	Yes.	b	Oh.

sv	So that was a wonderful vacation.	aa	Yeah,

qo	Well, what kind of things do you like to do when you go to Colorado?	sd	well, we like to ski, of course,

b	Yes.	sd	because we moved to Texas about two years ago. So when we go back we are just jam packed full of people to see and things to do

b	Yeah.	sd	so we don't get a lot of time to just vacation.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but, you know, other than that, with both my kids being under two, it's real hard to do any kind of events that, don't require as much,

sd	I think one of the places I always hit in Colorado, is that current outlet store.	b	Yeah

br	That's what,	o	you should mention that,

qy^d	with the Santa Claus on the cover.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	but we will probably be going up at Thanksgiving this year,	qw	where do you,

sd	Texas.	sd	you're in Texas.

sd	I'm in the Dallas area. In Plano.	sd	So am I.

sd	 so that's not too far.	b	Yeah.

b	Oh.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yes.	b	Yeah,

sd	We left on the eighteenth, right before that big snow storm hit Colorado	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we pulled in just as it hit.	ba	Wow.

qy	Do you go up through the Raton Pass, when you go up there?	nn	no,

sd	That's on like Route two eighty seven or something like that.	b	Yeah,

sd	We went up, through Oklahoma City and then up through, Kansas, and then turned left and went in on I Seventy	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was a little more mile wise	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's my main objectives normally. Whoever is willing to deal and give me a good price.	bk	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So I'm real picky.

sv	But I still think I'm going to get probably a hundred fifty thousand or more out of it.	b	Sure.

sd	so I don't have to buy one too often.	sv	That's true.

sv	I'll probably have, three, four hundred thousand before it wants to die.	aa	Well, that may be.

sv	but it runs good.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	my Cimarron is just so small and so low to the ground that I can't see past any vehicle , that's in front of me.

qy	did they tell you our topic?	nn	no,

bk	Okay,	qw	what is the topic?

^q	and what kind of decision do you think about you know, pick that car out and why.	bk	Okay.

b	Okay.	sd	I've had,

sd(^q)	so he always said why don't you drive a Ford, or why don't you try a Lincoln	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I like it.	sd	My dad has been a, Lincoln man for a lot of years,

bh	are you?	sd	And, the last Cadillac I bought was an Allante.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I just love it to death.

sd	so I like a little heavier car	sd	I used to do that quite a bit myself.

sd	So that's why I choose, you know, to drive a heavier car and more luxury car.	b	Yeah.

sd	I will probably get a Cadillac the next time quite honestly.	bh	Really?

sv	but, there's just something about that Cadillac that, whether it's a G M C product or whatever. Seems they handle better.	sv	They seem to put, They seem to be put together a little bit better.

aa	I think so, too.	sv	And, you know, the buttons on the controls and things like that are a little easier to get to than Ford products

sd	they really do.	sv	and G M doesn't seem to do that.

sd	it comes to the simple things like front end alignments	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't know why whether I just seem to drive them better or what,	b	Uh huh.

sv	They always appear to hold well.	sd	I had an Eldorado, was my first one, was an eighty

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I think at about sixty thousand miles I finally had it lined up.

qy^d	Did you.	sd	And I had them do all four wheels.

sd	I do miss that.	sv	That's true,

aa	Well, you're right.	sv	You know. Lincoln is still as big as it always has been

sd	and that's where I put my samples because trunks just aren't big enough.	sd	You know a car I ran across recently that has a tremendously large trunk is the Lincoln Continental.

sd	and it's a deep trunk, but not as broad as the Cadillac.	sd	Well, the Town Car, I noticed,

ba	good.	sd	You know, straight across.

qy^d	They went all the way down?	na	Front to back.

ba	Well, that's good.	sd	Not going from side to side.

ba	That's good.	sd	And we got three full sets in there and still had room for luggage.

sd	I sell gun cases and things like that	ba	I see.

sd	that's about the same size as a golf club.	b	Uh huh.

sd	samples need to stretch out and gun cases and things like that	qy^d	I don't know if you've ever looked at a Continental.

nn	Nope.	sv	it's not as peppy as a Town Car

b	Right.	sd	because it's a V Six,

sd	a Continental has more trunk space.	ad	You might take a look at them.

qy	You always have leather interiors on your Cadillacs?	na	all three of mine have had leather interiors,

sd	I like leather interiors also.	sd	I had a eighty Eldorado, which was leather

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it had the gray leather package in it

qw	what would you say?	sd	Well, I'd encourage it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's a good general ed , education for a bachelor's degree.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	and obviously it's where they don't have any post graduate program there,

b	Uh huh.	sv	they don't graduate the best engineers or the best English majors, but maybe a graduate pretty good overall students out of there.

qw	how do you feel that is for someone at that phase in their life?	sv	Well, for some people, it's good because maybe they need a little discipline, need a little reining in at that stage in their life.

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, you kind of choke on it

b^r	uh huh.	sv	it depends on the person, on the individual,

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	but, the one factor I think more than anything else in this day and age that's got to be a big factor in your decision's just the cost how much you're going to pay no matter where you go to school.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	And if you've been in for twelve years, I'm sure you've, you've got your share of student loans that, you're probably going to be paying off or have been

sd	one of the reasons it's taken so long is I've been working you know, sort of half working and source of income and stuff,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I'm actually managing to do this with zero debt.	ba	that's good.

sv	you couldn't do it otherwise.	sd	I mean I know people or that I went to high school with that went to civilian colleges

sv	I think if there's any major piece of advice is to find a way of getting an education that doesn't incur that kind of debt.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, I remember seeing an article one time about, you know, if the average person who spent that much money going to college just took the same amount of money and put it a, in an investment fund, they'd be considerably wealthier than they would be from the job they'd get after college.	aa	Exactly.

sv	So, it's really kind of crazy.	sv	it's staggering when you think that, just here in central New York, is,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, they're looking for twenty two thousand dollars for tuition and room and board now.

bh	Really?	sd	A year.

sd	I heard of it.	b	yeah.

b	Uh uh.	sd	I don't know how many people actually pay the whole shot.

b	Yeah.	sd	I just couldn't ima ,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm a second lieutenant in the Air Force now,

b	Uh huh.	sv	even as a somebody making twice what I was making, how could you put half of that into, to your child's education

b	Uh huh.	sv	and then just when they made, make it to the college years it's,

b^r	yeah.	sd	My God, I can't imagine.

sv	but you eventually forget most of it.	aa	Yes.

sv	as you said for someone you know, a more, you know, who needs to learn self discipline and so forth would be appropriate for them.	sv	Or, it's also a good environment,

^2	and want to develop that.	aa	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It can benefit different people different ways.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	But, you know, I agree with that, because I see people that I know again, from high school, that I still keep in touch with, that didn't go to college

b^r	Uh huh.	sd@	and they do the same old things they did in high school and,* needs slash because following utt by B repeats utt of A; is not necessarily the intended end of this utt Same patterns of behavior, same socializing, same exact crowd that they hang with

b^r	yeah.	sv	and it's like frozen time, you know.

sd	I really do.	aa	It is.

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's a, it's a tremendous thing when you sit in a college environment and discuss some issues and really sit there with people with disagreeing opinions

b	Right.	sv	and, that's another big thing I think people get out of college is the appreciation for differing points of view, you know, or different opinions.

sv	in high school everyone sort of tries to have the same opinion it seems.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and , they're just like, you know, someone from the country lost in the big city,	b	Yeah.

sd	and then I transferred to a very large school.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I went from you know, a second rate institution to a higher rate institution.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I needed really simple education that you can get, pretty much anywhere for the first couple of years.	sv	Well, your education's a lot what you make of it, too,

sd	I mean I see people at supposedly really good universities who are just having psychological problems, that, you think this isn't sinking in.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I work in a labora , an Air Force laboratory

b^r	yeah.	sv	even more so, like, military academy grads are a strange lot, too,

sv	it's sort of a rare select environment.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and then certain things that

aa	sure.	sv	But, these M I T grads are off in their absolute own world.

sd	It's a top rated institution	sv	but they're undergrads are like,

b^r	uh huh.	h	But, I don't know.

sd	Well, I had known a lot of undergraduates who pick schools because they want the best reputation for a school. Not realizing that the reputation for M I T is because of the doctorate research, and the professors who go there,	b	Right.

sd	and you're not going to see the professors	aa	Nope.

sv	and they think what the best is, is, reputation for research	b	Yeah.

sd	but it's not relevant, to what they need.	aa	No.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	But, having the military faculty is really beneficial because they see it as doing their job and spending time with the cadets there, is investing in the Air Force,

b	Right.	sd	or the military itself, it's the future officer corps

b	Uh huh.	sd	For me any time I needed extra help any time of the day I had all my instructors home phone numbers

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and could call them,

sd	you won't get that at M I T virtually or anything like that.	aa	No,

sv	you know, and you can't blame the professors either, because you look at their job description,	aa	No.

sv	teaching is third down on the list of importance things	aa	Right,

sv	and that's appropriate if the university is trying to do serious research, because it's hard to be a researcher and a teacher at the same time.	b	Right.

sd	People who really are committed to the students and can afford to be because that's their job.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	h	and, I don't know,

qo	Well, how do you feel about, drug testing?	sd	personally, I don't have a problem with it,

b	Yeah.	sd	I would never have a problem with anyone testing me,

sd	I mean, I don't want to be around people who are really on drugs and that sort of thing,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't really like having to do it.	aa	That's right.

sv	And I don't like the idea of it, it's, makes too much of a big brother type of thing.	aa	That's absolutely right.

b	Yeah.	sv	I don't think anybody would ever argue that. Or, any after affects carrying over into the workday

b	Huh uh.	sd	but, you know, I'm not particularly concerned with what people do, after they leave for the day especially if I don't, see any results of it the next day.

h	But, you know, it's one of those things.	sv	on the other hand you've got, you've got the possibility of people,

b	Yeah.	sv	the company and, you know, what kind of people work there, what,

sv	Plus, I guess, if they are in problem enough to be jailed or something of that nature for any length of time, then the company has lost what they've put into that employee, and their expertise or whatever.	aa	That's right.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, there's a lot involved there.

qrr	or would that just allow everybody a chance to get out of it?	sv	I think the regular schedule stuff, that when you say everybody get out of it, that's a good point,

sd	Well, you know, if they have time enough they can, stay off of it.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	as far as the new hires, I hired on just early enough that I missed it. where the new hires were concerned

b	Yeah.	sv	people have really quieted down after everything started

sd	boy, they just really, you know , let them have it from one end to the other, vehemently	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I don't think they probably feel any differently,	aa	No,

sd	and some of them did quit the company.	b	Yeah,

b	True.	sv	You know, there's not a lot of pressure to vote the right way or anything else around T I.

sd	I wouldn't like anything of that nature, you know,	b	Uh huh.

ad	don't tell me what to do, you know.	aa	Absolutely not, you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	But, it's still, it still remains a tough question

sv	Well, I guess too if I thought that this would help really and truly do away with the drug problem, then that would be one thing. But I think it's too minor and too, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	in the whole scope of things this isn't going to have any real affect on, what's going on in the street.	sv	I really don't think so.

b	Yeah.	sv	you know, it may prevent somebody who was teetering on the edge of experimenting or whatnot

sd	I would just be irate if they said it was positive and I knew it wasn't,	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, that just really rubbed me the wrong way.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	b^m	yeah,

ny	Yeah.	sd	it can still show up

aa	No.	sd	and, those are the kinds of things that still can show up.

sd	and you know what that is,	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's not allowed.	aa	That's right.

sd	You know, that's totally out.	aa	That's right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, there were certain things that they could provide without a doctors prescription based on their qualifications

sv^t	Well, I guess we've exhausted that one.	aa	Yeah,

fc	enjoyed talking to you.	fc	You too.

fc	Good bye.	fc	Good bye.

sv	And when, difficult decisions, are made, they generally prove out to be right by things that occur later on.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they are down to as small as six people I think, in petty, in, in, in minor felonies, and misdemeanor trials.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	I think that the judges should be left to do most of the sentencing, simply because, there is always, there is, there is always a jury that might be swayed, by the moment, either to be too lenient or too vengeful, I guess.	b	Yeah.

sv	if, if they keep giving everybody hundred year sentences, and the people in various states, it does not seem that people want to be taxed to build more prisons. Or even for that matter, repair the lack of judges and, and other,	aa	Yeah.

aa	you know, that might be it.	sv(^q)	they are saying, well, you know, the people cannot afford it.

sd	And the eighteen years will, translate into something like, four point seven, if the, if the prisoner is a model prisoner,	b	Yeah.

sv	Plus, I guess, there was some credit for time this guy had already spent in jail waiting for trial.	b	Right.

sv	it just seems to me that from what I read, only about ninety percent of the ca , only about ten percent of the cases come for trial anyway.	b	Right.

sv	or less than half the trials that go to, less than half the cases that go to trial, end up with, with the jury actually making the verdict.	^2	With a conviction?

sv	or most of the cases are plea bargained anyway.	b	Right.

qrr	Or do you know in Virginia if they have smaller juries	sd	I do not know exactly what the size of the juries.

b	Yeah.	sd	and he only heard very, you know, piddly type cases.

b	Yeah.	sd	they give the person the option for a jury.

sd	But I know you have a right to ask for a jury in, in any sort of a case that even where damages are, are, are the result of some sort of an action that you are bringing against someone else. You can ask for that to be heard before a jury.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Takes a heck of a long time, I guess, to get there in some states.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	Because I guess, everywhere I read that there is a shortage of judges.	b	Right.

sd	Or, and the courthouse that goes with them and the bailiffs and the clerk, court clerks.	b	Yeah.

sd	The more I verbalize it, I do not think I would want to change the system.	b	Right,

sd	I do not know what we would replace it with .	sd	I do not think I would either.

b	Yes.	h	I do not know,

sd	I mean I do no think I could handle prison.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean it would be very difficult,	sd	Well, I would be interested in finding out what the, percentage of drug related type things are,

sv	Well, there must be a, ca , a, a, a very great degree of that.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean it seems to me that, that when a jury makes a decision, they should not be asked, before television cameras and newspaper reporters how they reached that decision.	b	Yeah.

sv	But I would think if I did anything, I would protect the juror from any sort of an inquisition after .	sd	on the other hand though, when, after the Barry trial, up here, you know, the big local trial, as well as national.

sd	I was there during the trial actually,	b	Yeah.

b^r	yeah.	sd(^q)	It was like, well, a picture is not good enough.

sd	I felt, I felt,	sv	But it does not matter.

sd	I think they only, found him guilty on one count. which was a class something felony. Which was not even punishable, to the degree that they thought it.	^2	one count.

sd	I mean, I, I am not making excuses for .	b	Yeah.

sv	That might be it.	b	Well, yeah.

fc	All right, nice talking with you.	fc	Well, it has been nice talking to you.

ft	Thank you.	fc	Uh huh.

sd	and I usually, when I hear about a movie that's supposed to be very good even if it's in a genre I don't like,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I figure, well, I should go see it, because if this is, you know, the best of the genre and I should know about it, or something like that	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)	and I usually come away thinking, no I really don't like this show .	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	usually people tell you how good they are,

b^r	yeah.	b	Right.

sd	Well, the problem I had with the movie was the problem I've had with a lot of, I guess, Hollywood movies which is they are, it's a formula movie,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they're making the movie according to certain formula that's a good formula	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean here's the situation of this kid at home, you know,	b	Yeah,

sd	it's a classic slapstick situation with these bungling burglars trying to get in	aa	Right.

sv	but given the size of the house and how clever the kid was, it seems to me they could have done a lot more, I mean, you know, basically stepping on things and yelling in pain	b	Yeah

sv	and it seems to me they could have been a lot more creative stuff used.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, all the comedies are more like jokes and, you know, gags and stuff like that

b^r	uh huh.	sv	there's not as much slapstick anymore.

sv	so we may see more slapstick.	b	Uh huh.

qy	have you ever seen any of the movies?	br	Excuse me?

sd	The French movies that .	nn	No,

sd	I'm not with you so far,	sd	shoot, I'm going to hit myself after I hang up.

b	Uh huh.	sd	that was the last one I saw downtown,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so a lot of times they have the, the, international films downtown

b	yeah.	sv	so this, French I guess are into the slapsti ,

sd	Yes they like your Lewis much to the chagrin of sophisticated American everywhere.	b	Right.

sv	there's something about the human character in it	b	uh huh.

sv	There was a lot of the human character when he was home alone and he was trying 	b	Right.

sv	but when it was, the real slapstick moments, him versus the criminals kind of thing, it just sort of lost the human element and became purely a caricature	b	Uh huh.

qy	does that make since to you?	ny	Yeah,

qy	Did you go with kids though?	bf	and how it fits with the character , right.

qy^m	Did you go with kids?	br	Excuse me?

qy	Did you take kids along?	nn	No,

sd	I would have liked to have a kid with me, I think, preferably someone seven or eight just to get a sense for, you know, how it affected them. especially to come home	b	Oh.

sd	I'm sure.	b	Uh huh,

^2	TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES.	aa	Right

b	Uh huh.	b	yeah,

qy^d	And your cousin's a kid,	ny	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	b	yeah,

ba	isn't it amazing.	sv(^q)	it's like golly,

sd	it was all bloodless	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the good guys can get hit all day long	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they have to shake it off	b	Yeah.

sd	they don't, you know, get, epileptics, that sort of thing from getting hit on their head	b	Right.

sd	partly it's supposed to be a little bit more okay because it's comic book on the other hand it makes it seem like,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but the aftermath is usually not there.	b	Right.

sd	So you see people who are severely injured, very, very badly, lose control of body functions	b	Uh huh.

sv	even the movies that want to show violence as real, they don't really show you what happens with that real violence	b	Uh huh.

h	and I'm not really sure how I feel about that.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	on the other hand I wouldn't want people who currently get sort of enjoy their violence fixes from these movies to start thinking gee, now we want to see the aftermath all the time either.	sv	You're right,

sd	and I guess I'm a bit of a snob, they make the movies good enough to be successful	b	Uh huh.

sv	and they, but they could make them better, you know	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, as far as I was concerned, TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES could have been a classic of world theater	b	Really.

sv	it was a classic Greek, you know, you know, a sort of, European mess going back three thousand years that they're playing with	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and he told them, , remember, you were united, you can succeed, individually you will fail	b	Yeah,

sd	then they had to have the Master beat him	b	Right.

sd	according to the classic myth, the sort of Joseph Campbell type myth, he, the Master should have died at the end because the lesson was passed to the young generation	b	Right.

sd	and on and on, and all this wonderful mess	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it would have make it, broadened the audience that it could have been targeted for, I thought	b	Uh huh.

sv	I realize that. I mean, to go to these movies and expect them to be, you know, other than just good entertainment kind of thing.	b	Right.

b^r	yeah.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I'm actually originally from Hollywood,	ba@	really. Uh huh.

sd	and then, perhaps it's unfair, because I, I must admit I enjoy these movies	b	Yeah,

sd	and then after the movie's over, I remember it so terribly well because it had some meaning to me or something.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I always like the musicals, and those ones, that just stick in your head.

h	I don't know what it is	b	Uh huh.

h	I mean, I don't know if this is old fart talking here or something, because I'm not that old ,	ar	No,

sv	you know, those old movies seemed to have had something that was memorable somehow,	b	Uh huh.

fc	well, thanks for hearing me rap, I guess .	fc	Got to go take care of the children,

fc	nice talking with you.	fc	Yeah,

sd^e	I'm in California .	bk	okay,

sd	there must be Texas people, as near as I can tell.	b	Yeah,

sd	well, I'm from the .	fc	Bye bye.

qo	How do you feel about it?	aa	Well, yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	one is two and a half

sv	I think that's just part of their overall educational process, is to get out and see and do things.	aa	Right,

sd(^q)	And it's helps, I think, the children when they're learning in school, to say, well, I've been there and I've seen that.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	b	Uh huh.

b^r	Yeah,	aa	Yeah,

b	Yes.	sd	And we could, read the things in the history books and understand what they said, when it was like, we need to raise food quickly because this place gets very cold very soon.

sd	And even now with my grandchildren, I feel it's a very important thing to be done.	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sv	and you know, nowadays there's a lot of people out there that you don't want your kid emulating or whatever.

sd	A real point of pride with me.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	So that the only reason I'm home is because I'm home with a cold .

sd	So, we're kind of far apart here.	b	Yeah .

sd^t	and when I signed up for it, it, looked like it could make a real contribution in participating.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	Likewise, we do some projects every now and then.

sd	and, again, this is our home area.	b	Oh.

sd	So, wound up back about two hundred miles away from where we started out.	b	Yep .

fc	It's been a pleasure talking with you.	fc	Okay.

ft	Thank you.	bd	Right.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	I have only like two or three favorite television shows.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think one of my favorite then is from the guy Stephen, is it Brochco, who does like L A LAW	b	yeah.

sd	and, he also did HILLSTREET BLUES.	b	Yeah,

sd	I like those type of shows.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't get to watch a whole lot of T V.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so it's usually the nine o'clock shows that if we get them in bed, we usually watch that,

sv	I think they're different than a lot of other shows of which they have like the re runs in the middle of the season	b	Yeah.

sd	and then towards the end when everybody else is showing reruns, they start showing some of their newer stuff.	b	Yeah

qy^d	and so you must watch a lot of, Disney or cartoons then?	no	Well, we have on SESAME STREET and MISTER ROGERS, that kind of stuff,

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's kind of nice to know that they're just going to be seeing, you know, not a lot of violence and that kind of stuff

b	Right.	sv	and they usually, show a lot of things that really teach them different things about the world.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	My older son, he's going to be five,

sd	they're getting close to the teenage years.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but even some of your, cartoons can be very violent	b	Yeah.

sd	and, we were watching, gosh, BUGS BUNNY just last night	b	yeah.

sd	and one of the things was to kill the rabbit	b	Oh.

sv	And I thought, gee whiz, if a little kid was watching this, you know, that would be pretty violent even for a small child.	b	Well, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I don't think that they really realize that death is forever, you know.

b	Right.	sv	And showing them something like that really doesn't teach them that it is.

sv	Well, I don't think cartoons portray that	aa	No,

sd	A cat has nine lives	b	Yeah.

sd	but, we've gotten,	b	Uh ,

ad	go ahead.	sd	I was just going to say, I know that, at least before our kids were born, we used to always enjoy watching the COSBY SHOW,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like to watch DESIGNING WOMEN if the kids are in bed by then.

qw^d@	I don't know where you're at * should be slash unit because B orients to it, and following utt by A couldn't be made without info from B Dallas,	sd	we're in Dallas.

sd	you know, that's about how disinterested I had become.	b	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it wasn't really that great.

b	uh huh.	sv	they've done everything dirty in the book you know,

qy	Was it actually based on a book?	nn	Well, no,

o^r	okay,	sd	Everything you could think of, you know had a hard time,

b	right.	sv	and I think maybe with DALLAS, as far as, they lost a lot of characters that had been around at the first.

aa^r	that's true.	h	I don't know,

qy^d	You know, and if you notice on DALLAS, they lost all the women.	ny	Yeah.

sv	well, anyway that's a whole new issue .	aa	Yeah

sd	the only thing I don't like about it, especially with teenagers, is all the violence, the sex, the nudity and the curse words you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, they had to have picked them up from, the T V.	b	Yeah.

sv	One nice thing though about the cable company we use, they have that little parental, key,	br	Where you can lock up, the channel or whatever?

sd	and I keep the keys with me.	b	Yeah.

sv	Because their natural curiosity, you know, to go towards that way and want	b	Yeah.

b^m	yeah.	sv	And I don't know the way the generations are growing up now,

b	Yeah.	sd	And especially in the summer time we aren't in the house very much in the evenings.

sv	well, and here lately it hasn't been that cool anyway with the humidity being so high.	aa	Well, true,

fc	Well, it was nice talking to you.	fc	Well, it was nice talking to you, too.

fc	talk with you later.	fc	Okay.

sd	This is a real first .	b	Yes.

qy	Are you at work?	ny	Yes,

^q	I'll try the middle of the afternoon.	sd	Well, I'm happy we got through.

qy	Well, do you have any, opinion on the subject?	sd	Well, I'm especially interested with what's happening in the Soviet Union,

b	Oh.	qy	is that reported in the Texas papers?

sd	I'm really uninformed.	sd	I'm afraid I don't have the statistics in front of me.

b	Uh huh.	sv	, it's not a tiny area.

b^r	uh huh.	sv	but, but it's more significant, in the sense of, it's a great agricultural region.

qy^g	I know a lot of their countries that they had overtaken, or wanted to be independent or several of them, right,	ny	Yeah.

qy	are they,	sd	They're completely out now.

sd	I thought they were.	aa	Yes,

qy^d	but, the Ukraine is especially significant because of the agriculture?	na	Right,

qy^d	so there were probably really fight to keep it in if they could.	na	Right,

sd	they don't,	sd	It's done democratically,

qy^g	And Bush has already given his opinion on it, right?	ny	Yes.

qy	Didn't I read that?	ny	Yes.

sv	but I guess people do that when they're desperate.	sv	that's true, hasn't happened here for a while,

sv	I guess when the veterans went to Washington	b	Uh huh.

sd	Things are not so good in Texas job wise.	aa	No,

sv	and it's pretty scary.	qy	do you, do you blame the government in Washington for this?

sd	I know that we have a terrible situation with foreign trade and that other countries put a lot of restrictions that we don't	b	Yeah.

sv	and so I assume that that has some effect. Or a great effect.	b	Yeah.

sd	the statistics prove that	qy	So then, it's, you think it's Reagan and Bush have done this

sv	Maybe they should pay more attention or, you know, to the more equalization of the trade.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Of course, if somebody in China can make something for ten cents and we have to make it for ten dollars because we have unions, well, I don't know what's going to happen then.	aa	the Chinese use slave labor, too.

b	Right.	sv	that's one of the ways they get away with it.

^2	And child labor.	aa	Yeah.

qw	What do you think has caused our horrible situation?	sv	I don't think there's any one simple answer to the whole thing.

^2	One thing.	sv	I mean that's very complicated.

sd	I mean, I've read that is a theory.	qw	So which one are we going to throw out?

sd	but, I'm tending to go straight back into my original democratic party.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but now it's looking better to me.	sd	I like your governor.

sd	I'm glad to hear that.	sv	She's an impressive woman.

sd	I just, admire her a lot.	b	Yeah.

sv	But she's, you know, probably more popular out of the state than she is here, although she did manage to win.	b	Right .

ad	But look who she was running against, you know .	b	Well, yeah,

qy	What you mean, my voice?	ny	Yes.

sd	I am from Kentucky. Originally .	b	well.

sd	We are going to mow and trim and edge,	b	Yeah.

sd	and that is all we have been doing all weekend.	qh	You know what?

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we hired a professional landscaper to do it.

qw	how many kids do you have?	sd	Just two,

bk	Okay.	sd	but they are just eighteen months apart so it seems like a lot more.

qw	I mean, how old are they?	sd	Four and five.

ba	Goodness.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have got a four year old and a four month old. And an eight year old stepdaughter.	sd	well, I have a twenty six year old stepson,

sd	Well, you do not have to tend to him.	sd	Well, I did for many years.

qy^d	It is over with.	ny	Yeah.

bf	He is gone.	aa	Yeah.

sd	But I do have half of it is a flower bed, just about, all by the porch.	b	Uh huh.

sd	There was some plants that are just Spring bloomers	b	Uh huh.

sd	when the blooms died, the leaves were just horrible looking.	b^r	Uh huh.

qy	Have you ever seen those?	ny	yeah.

sd	But the leaves, I do not like them.	b	All right,

sd^e	It is a bulb.	ad	Well you should of just ripped the whole thing out.

sd	So I just cut the leaves off and transplant and put some other plants down. Because I want them to come back up next year.	qy	is this the first year they have been up?

ny	Yeah.	sv	Well, let me tell you, they do not come back very well at all.

br	Of hyacinths?	nn	No,

bf	of everything.	sd	But I have just learned from doing hyacinths that if you really like them what you do is you dig the bulbs up and then you throw them away after they are done blooming. Because they do not take the heat here.

qy^d	they will?	ny	Yep.

sd	And, everybody down here calls these flags. the irises I guess,	br	They call them flags?

sd	I am not sure what they are called.	qw	When does it, when does it bloom?

sd	It has got gr ,	qw	And what color?

sd	The blooms are, on some of them is yellow, purple, white. Just all different colors.	qy	And you only get one of them?

sd	But when I come down here, everybody told me they are flags.	bh	You know what I bet you they are?

b	Uh huh.	sd	And our neighborhood is a planned development with, I think, it is seven hundred and fifty five families.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	But we have about sixty acres that we have to plant.

sv	It is some type of lily.	sd	And I will get,

sd	I have got some in the backyard that bloomed blue. Which I would have liked those in the front because they match my porch and stuff better. And then some on the side of the house with the dusty purple color. With little purple spots that it will fade into a solid purple.	qw	And what does the foliage look like?

sd	And it is a bulb.	fx	I bet you what those things are, is a Dutch iris.

b^m	Dutch irises.	fx	I bet you it is a Dutch iris.

b	Uh huh.	qy	does it on its, on the flower, does it have a beard on it at all? Any kind of fuzzies?

no	You know, I really do not know.	fx	I am going to bet you that,

sd	they have, they're died down. I am sorry, they are dead now.	sd	Well, I was just going to correct myself.

sd	They bloom in the Spring.	sd	Because they would have bloomed pretty early.

sd	They bloomed in the Spring.	b	Yeah.

na	Right about the same time or after.	bk	Okay.

sd	I took and just mowed over them last year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I just threw them on the side, intending to transplant them or throw them away or something. And forgot about them through the whole Winter.	b	Yep.

qy	Does that help? .	sd	Well then it is not a Dutch iris then.

sd	But they call them flags or down here, down here.	sv	Well, I am not so sure that Texans know what they have got.

sd	I am not on, I am just getting into gardening this year.	qy	Did you just move down here?

sv	So it was really too late to do much.	sd	Because I have got, I have probably got, do, do, do, I do not know how many square feet it is, a big circular driveway.

b	Oh.	sd	and it looks quite formal.

sd	I am wanting bl , I want blue and purple and, you know, just different shades of that. Because my house is gray,	qy	You want blue?

sv	and blue looks so pretty against it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That will come back up.	bk	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it will send out a flower spike.

sd	I did not know the hyacinths were going to die.	b	Yep.

sd	I had bought these, colossians Celosias or whatever.	b	Yep.

sd	And they will not grow down here.	b	Huh uh.

sd	Perennial.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Blue.	^2	Salvia.

b^m	Salvia.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I guess, I just went and bought me just about nineteen dollars worth of little buds, planted, already grown.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it looks pretty good out there.	sd	I will tell you another plant that is purply .

b	Uh huh.	sd	i , it, it is kind of a purply blue red.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	It is really a pretty plant.

br^m	Purple Buddy?	ny	yeah,

sd	Purple Buddy.	sd^m	Purple Buddy.

qw	How do you spell that?	sd	G o m p h r e n a.

bk	Okay.	sd	And they make, about a foot high plant.

qy	Do you want to tell me about your budgeting plan?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I'm out of cash

ba	no.	sd	So, I'm going to go back and do some consulting work.

bf	into savings.	aa	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	Either savings or investment, one of the two,

ba	Well, that's pretty good.	sv	And as far as the rest of it's concerned, we don't have any kind of, what I would call extravagant expenses, you know,

ba	Boy, that's pretty good.	sd	and the rest of it, you know, we pile into the house.

b	Sure.	sd	but, we're still making the payments on them.

sd	You have to have the contractor sign with you.	aa	Right,

sv	But it's easy to find a contractor for a couple of hundred bucks who'll sign it and let you do it	b	Yeah.

sd	, where I live, that is.	sd	And where I live, it's pretty scary, because Texas is one of those strange states where if you have a contractor sign on your note like that and you screw up, you don't get it finished,

b	Uh huh.	sd	the bank can eat the contractor.

bf	bad for him,	aa	Yeah,

qy	Is that right?	ny	Yeah,

ba	Wow.	sd	You know. They can take your car and your clothes and your, anything

sv	Well, that's kind of handy.	b	Yeah.

sd	I just finished James Michener's TEXAS book.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Pretty interesting.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Texas has quite the history.	sd	Well, you know, we're not ones to budget much, you know .

sd	and so we pay ten percent tithing	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then, you know, we put I guess it's like fifteen to twenty percent into a savings account.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But that sometimes we use for emergency type things.	b	Yeah.

sv	We're fortunate that way, that I make enough to do what we want to do.	b	Yeah,

ba	Well that's pretty.	sd	The land is paid for cash,

ba	That's a great position to be in.	sd	Well, it's fraught with other problems .

qy	Is that right?	ny	Yeah,

qw	What kind of consulting do you do?	sd	systems consulting. Computerization for construction firms.

bh	Is that right?	ny	Yeah.

sd	I I'm a E D P auditor.	b	Right.

sd^e	and P C s.	bh	really?

sd	I'm just brushing up on, well, C plus plus.	bh	Are you really?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	I just got that a few days ago.

qy	Three	fe	gees,

b	Oh.	sd	This guy's place burned down,

ba	You got a buy.	sd	Well, some of it wasn't worth anything, you know.

b	Sure.	sd	You know, a lot of the, diskettes were just totally unusable.

bf	Melted, or Just wet	aa	Well, yeah

b	Okay.	sd	But I did get out of there with, Vermont Views, which is a huge,

qh	how many years have we tried to find a cure for cancer.	b	Uh huh.

qo	how about yourself.	sd	well, I'm certainly in favor of AIDS research,

sv	they say a million people are infected with the H I V virus,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think,	qr^d	That's in the world, or in America?

sd	in the country, America.	bh	really?

sd	and they have millions.	qw	Whose figure is that?

sd	I've just heard it on the radio.	bk	Okay.

sv	Sometimes you hear things on the radio that, you know, could be true or couldn't be.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess they're spending a billion or so a year on this AIDS research.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Do you think they should spend more?	ng	I think they should, actually, although perhaps not an incredible amount more than what they're doing,

qw	What do you think, Doug, of Mister Johnson?	sd	 well, I am sorry that he has the virus.

qy^d	Magic?	h	I don't know,

qy	Do you think he's the hero that he's being called by a bunch of the media?	ng	well, not really, though I mean, I think he's probably doing the right thing for a man in his position,

sd	I talked to my kids about it, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's something that I hadn't done before.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	or I was glad he did that, for young kids, because a lot of kids would have ended up dying because of what he was promoting.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I guess you might not.	ny	yeah,

qy	Is it pretty nasty?	ny	Yeah,

ba	it sounds awful.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Is it just that the immune system ceases to function properly	ny	yeah,

b	really.	b	yeah,

o	Okay.	sv	Wonderful touch tone telephone there.

qw	what kind of books do you enjoy reading?	^h	have, I have a wide variety of hobbies,

sd	and I really enjoyed, you know, all the little things that you find out about Texas.	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then I'll sit up and read just to refresh, you know, to keep active on it,

b^r	Uh huh.	qo	How about yourself?

sd	so I, frequently purchase and read, books, mainly on water color because that's my big interest at the moment.	ba	that's great.

sd	right now I'm occasionally reading on a book about, the Mardi Gras in New Orleans and its history.	b	Uh huh.

sv	That's fairly interesting.	aa	I bet that would be, rather interesting.

qo	How about you?	h	well I hate to,

b	Yeah.	sv(^q)	one of it's great slogans is if you're not serving the customer, you better be serving someone who is.

b	Uh huh.	sv	so that's all in self improvement to stay focused on who the customer is

b	Right.	sd	every now and then I'm loaned a tape I can stick in the car cassette set on the way home to make the drive more enjoyable, talking about, better outlooks on things and the philosophy of Pat Hagerty and these kind of, mind stimulating philosophy type. Which all, you know, betters yourself.

sd	well, maybe I am into some things occasionally that I don't think of in terms of self improvement.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't label it as such.	qw^d	Like what for example.

sd	but, they would be things on like how to be successful and sort of talking to yourself. You know getting yourself in gear to, sort of pull yourself up by your boot straps and do what you really want to do. Convincing you that you need to get on with it.	b	Sure.

aa	Yes.	sv	So those are self improvements.

aa	Sure.	sd	our supervisor, subtly bought all of us a book called WHAT EVERY SUPERVISOR SHOULD KNOW. By a man named Doctor Bittel, B I T T E L

b^r	yeah.	sd	If he casually just walked into it and, put down a Stephen King book and I picked up one of them I might be a little more interested.

sv	That's a little heavy for me.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I have a hard time finishing books.

sd	Well I guess I also have been reading, a lot of things on, quality improvement and that type of thing because that's what I'm involved in a lot at work.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, I think sometimes the word is a little over used	aa	exactly right.

b	Yeah.	sv	but, that's just kind of part of it.

sd	Well we just started,	aa	this is true.

fc	and good bye.	fc	Have a good day.

fc	Good bye.	fc	Bye bye .

sd	so my favorite team is about the Rangers.	bh	Is it?

b	Yeah.	sv	A little disappointing the last few years.

qy	You think they'll sign Ruben?	sv	You know I really don't.

br	No?	sv	you know, with that guy from Pittsburgh getting all that money, twenty seven or twenty nine million or whatever it was, I just don't think that they're going to be able to sign Ruben Sierra

sv	I think it's going to have a big effect if they don't on the other, Hispanic players.	aa	I do, too.

sv	I think that's going to be the big problem.	sv	It's just going to effect on the team, you know.

b	Right.	sv	We just can't seem to, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	it's just too disappointing.

b	Right.	sd	I was a Pete Incaviglia fan

b	Oh.	sd	but, of course, I understand baseball decisions are all just,

sv	I think they just want to stay mediocre and draw their two million fans out there and then be happy with it and not have to pay the bucks to get a contender in here.	sd	They say as long as they draw up two million fans that Greave and Valentine will be there.

aa	yeah.	sv	and that's the name of the game, too.

b	Right.	sv	now, it's just it's frightening.

b	Right.	sd	You and I should be so lucky you know, to go out and swing a bat and get two thousand dollars every time you swing the bat or something like that.

sv	but they need the pitching.	aa	Yeah,

aa	I know.	sd	but, I realize the difference,

sv	it's sure aggravating when you go out and bust your butt working, you know, your day job and you can work your day job the rest of your life and not bring home as much money as they bring home in one game.	aa	I know.

sv	It's real aggravating,	sd	But, one thing I don't understand is why a group, you know, headed up by George Bush would buy the Texas Rangers and not really get behind them

aa	That's right.	sd	but, you know, in the past half a dozen years, all we've had is the, the soccer team.

sv	but you think we'd, someday get an owner in here that could afford to buy the, the players we need.	sd	I know.

sv	so it's a lot of losers .	aa	I know.

sv	It's about to get, you know as bad as the Cubs or whoever, you know.	sd	I've been one,

b	Right.	sd	I mean I follow them

o	I'm telling you.	sd	I love Nolan Ryan.

sv	I think this town would go crazy if they ever got even a playoff team.	aa	I do, too.

sv	So, at least that will be exciting when we get that,	aa	It will.

sd	and, I mean, I'm getting tired of them going into each year saying, you know, Bobby Witt is the answer and Kevin Brown is the answer,	b	Right .

sv	I mean, it's time to either, you know, put out or shut up.	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	and they give him all kinds of money

qo	Well, what's your views on it?	sv	I think it's, a good idea.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, right now I see a lot of kids who get out of school, have no idea what they want to do.

b	Yeah.	sv	And there's a lot of things out there that we could do, for our own country,

b	Sure.	"	let alone other countries,

b	Sure.	sv	and I think that we've got the people power to do it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And there's a lot of housing,

b	Yeah.	sd	I know in the area that I live in, that's run down and beat up,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's just, you know, sitting there wasting away.

sv	a lot of reasons for that, not just because I'm a hard ass or anything.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it helps mature them a little bit, and helps them understand the world, the way it really is.	b	Yeah,

b	yeah.	sv	A lot of it has to do from too much T V,

b^r	yeah.	sv	and, you know, there's, there's a heck of a lot of difference between, you know, the intake that you get from T V and movies, and what you hear in school, and then what reality is.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I remember, I've worked since I was,

b	Uh huh.	sd	like, you know, when I actually started working full time, I got married shortly after getting out of high school.

b	Yeah.	sv	Because, life, and the reality of working for a living, and trying to make ends meet, is just so overwhelming to someone, if they aren't prepared for it.

sv	and most of them aren't.	aa	That's true.

sv	Kids in high school are just too young to be married.	b	Yeah.

sv	They don't how tough it is out there to make a living.	b	Yeah,

sd	and after traveling around the world a few times, I realized that, things ain't the way they seem.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I did a lot of growing up there,	b	Yeah,

sv	and, you know, if you could have a thought of something like a Peace Corps sort of organization. I mean, this would be so useful, for instance, just helping old folks.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	and it would be nice to have somebody come over and cut their yard or paint their house, or do minor repairs, or something like that.	sd	my parents are in their late sixties now,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, it's really hard on them,

b	Yeah.	sv	And, you know, there's a nice warm feeling,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, I was a Boy Scout

sd	and it got to the point where, I mean, me and my brother both were gone, and she couldn't maintain the house, without large expenditures of money.	b	Yeah.

sv	but it would have been nice if there had been somebody to come around and take care of the little things. You know, like the yard work and little repairs, and painting and stuff like that.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, I mean, the kids who would be giving the service are going to get a lot more out of it than just money.	b	Yeah.

sv	they're out for themselves	b	Yeah.

sv	And we can do it a lot more efficiently than the government.	b	Yeah.

sv	We don't need to add fourteen layers of bureaucracy to a program.	aa	Exactly.

sd	the thing that Carter works on, Habitats For Humanity, I was involved in that in Montgomery, before I came up to North Carolina,	b	Uh huh

sv	but it's better than nothing.	b	Yeah.

sv	course, on the other hand, I can start complaining very loudly about people on public assistance who are quite capable of doing something for themselves, but just won't. Because it's far more advantageous for them to sit there and just draw, welfare money than it is to work.	b	Yes.

sd	And they came out four thousand dollars better a year, by taking welfare.	b	Yes.

sv	Far better for them to sit on their butts and draw the money.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it got shot down.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, if nothing else, go out along an interstate and pick up garbage.	sd	That's exactly what they were trying to get them to do.

qrr	or do they use prisoners?	sd	both.

sd	that's the way they did it in Alabama, too.	b	Yeah,

sd	usually you'd see these big chain gangs out there, picking up trash.	sd	they have another program in Maryland that's called Adopt A Highway.

fp	How are you doing?	br	What,

fp^r	I said, how are you doing?	fp	I'm doing fine.

sd	We're trying to retire in our fifties.	b	Yeah.

o	Good luck on that one, then.	br	What is that?

sd	I said good luck on that one, then.	sv	Well, we've got a pretty good situation, my wife and I, since our property is already paid for.

b	Huh uh.	sd	You know, they give you an opportunity to either transfer into an on going project.

qy^d	You can't say?	ny	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	br	What?

sd	It's like two hundred dollars	b	Huh uh.

sd	I think that would be a ,	b	Huh uh.

^g	What?	b	Yeah

sd	but you don't have to do that option if you don't want to.	sd	Well, I could see where that would be important.

qy	do you have that?	nn	No.

b^m	No.	sd	I don't know what it's about .

sd	It takes it out of your salary before taxes.	b	okay.

b	Okay.	bf	Pretax insurance?

aa	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	I wonder why.	br	Um?

sd	I said, I wonder why.	sv	it's probably what the first guy who did it, called it.

o	Cafeteria?	b	Yeah.

qo	so. Let's see what else can we do?	sd	I'll tell you what we could do.

qw	What?	sd	We could prohibit people from being hired that are historically going to cost the company money. You know, do a little bit better research on who gets hired

bf	You mean, like for health insurance?	aap	Well, not only just health insurance, I mean for the whole benefit of the company.

b	Yeah.	b	Okay.

sv	Well, that's easier done in a company than it is in, school teaching.	sv	Well, frankly, I think school teachers ought to get about ten times what they're getting paid.

ba	Thank you .	br	What?

sd	I said, thank you.	b	Oh.

sd	But it's hard to get rid of a teacher if they're not good.	sd	I know.

sd	It's almost impossible.	sd	Well, there's two schools of thought on that.

b	Huh uh.	sd	I got about eight years of education ahead of me before I can do that

b	Huh uh.	sd	Then you have tenure.

b	Huh uh.	sd	Well, you know, in a situation like that, I don't know if that's good or bad.

b	Right.	sd	And I've also had tenured professors that were the best things on two legs.

sd	You know, you knew you weren't going to lose your job unless you really did something horrendous.	sd	Well, they really can't fire you without cause,

b	Right.	sd	You know, and I could see a point protecting someone's position,

sd	In some places they don't.	sd^m	In some places that don't.

qy	Do they?	sd	But, you know, you get specialized education now, for instance, take computer science.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, I went to college late on in life

ny	Yeah.	sv*	I mean, my agree is absolutely worthless. /* listen; agree is probably degree

qw	What did you get your degree at?	sd	Industrial Marketing.

qw	And what's your job now?	sd	Well, actually I'm selling computer software.

sd	I'd like to see flexible hours. And teaching, shared, job sharing, more of that.	sd	Well We've, we've, we've already got that.

sd	and you get to choose your boss.	b	yeah.

qy	Well, so you get to evaluate him though?	ng	Well, not really.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, and that is something that I think needs to be expanded on, specially in the large market place. You know, the major corporation, because so often, you know, you get a guy who's got eight or nine or ten people working for him in separate areas so to speak.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, it's hard for me to, you know, especially since I'm in marketing sales, you know,

b	Huh uh.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	I'll let you start first, okay?	na	Okay.

sd	so that way we could kind of control, in, control it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, we live in kind of a small town,	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and we're all comfortable in it.	ba	Well, that's great,

sd	you can because that way your not having to pay the middle men and everybody else.	sv	Nothing wrong with that,

sd	and that helped.	bf	That was a big savings.

o@	he did everything else. We've been in it six years.	ba	Well, that's great.

sd	but he will not build a second one himself. Because he says age wise he'll never be able to handle that again .	b	I see,

aa	yes.	sd	We're having an architect friend of mine design a house for us

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he's charging us about a buck a square foot to design it

b	oh.	sd	But, I have heard that your approach is right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you can even just sub it out to concrete and those kind of things

b	Yeah.	sd	everyone I talk to, I file in my little book and do other things with it .

sd	but, you know, we could not have one as large as we have if, you know, we hadn't did it ourselves.	b	Sure,

sd	but, you know, it's ours.	sv	If your happy with it, that's all that counts.

aa^r	That's right.	sv	That's all,

sv	apparently the appraisers likes it because our taxes sure is high .	sv	that's, an encouraging sign if you ever want to resell, I guess.

fc	and it was nice talking to you.	fc	Nice talking with you, too.

fc	bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qy	Do you have a budget that you go on?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean I include everything from groceries to insurance to car payments to credit card payments, you know, everything.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it tends to work out pretty well that way.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	That way I know how much pocket change I'm going to have left at the end of the month or at the end of the paycheck anyway.

b	Uh huh	sd	So that works okay for me.

sd	Well, my bills I usually know approximately how much they're going to be.	b	Right.

sd	Each month they are more or less just about the same, you know.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And then, like for groceries and everything, we try to put, like, two hundred and fifty dollars in a little can in the kitchen	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then that's what we use to buy the groceries with.	b	okay.

sd	and usually that's enough.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't have any, you know, small children to have anything extra come up, you know, like, running to the doctor or something like that with them.	b	Right.

sd	In fact, I did have to take my dog to the vet the other day .	qy^d	so you know what I'm saying,

qy^g	that, it's worse than having a kid,	na	sometimes it can be.

b	Yeah.	na^m	Sometimes it can be.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I do try to build in a little extra money each month to be able to do that type of thing

sd	so I just went ahead and took my early pension.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I only get that once a month.	ba	that's tough.

b	Yeah	sd	My roommate only gets paid once a month

sd	So, you know, I really have to try to budget, that I don't go over that amount, you know, each month.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	There's always one or two stragglers that usually they were,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	but I would pay all of them at one sitting

b	right.	sd	and it worked okay for me.

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know.

qy^g	Right now it's terrible isn't it?	ny^e	yeah, it's really bad.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, it's going pretty well

sd	last year I didn't.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So this year, now I have them taking out fifty dollars a month out of my checking account for my Christmas club.	b	Yeah.

sv	So I figure, you know, that's going to help some.	bf	That'll cover your gifts come Christmas time.

aa	right, you know.	ba	That'll be good,

b^r	right.	b	Yeah,

sd	I'm taking like, sewing lessons to try to learn how to sew better than what I can	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I won't have to go out and buy the ready made clothes anymore.	b	uh huh.

sv	but I figure that will help me save you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	because I have three sisters	b	Yeah.

sd	and none of those are really interested in sewing.	b	Yeah.

sd	and then I can also, you know, do some crafts and sell those at garage sales.	b	Uh huh,

sd	So, which I've been doing.	ba	Well, that's a good way to a little extra money.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well, this is another way that I'm making a little extra money

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	I had not, done

qy^d	it is?	ny	Yeah,

ba	well, that's nice you know.	sd	I was about to call to see if I could get on with somebody,

b	Uh huh.	sv	so that was great.

sd	they automatically took it out of my out of my payroll.	b	Yeah.

qw	So, so what have you seen lately that, you think is worthwhile?	sd	the last movie I saw was REGARDING HENRY.

sd^e	I saw the previews.	sv	It's really good.

qy	does he, does it have a happy ending,	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's one of the best movies I've seen in a long time.

qy^g	that was funny, wasn't it .	ny	Yeah,

sd	and, and, and the regular NAKED GUN and AIRPORT and, you know.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yes.	sv	But it was silly.

sd	one, absolutely slapstick comedy and one clearly, you know, serious subject.	b	Yeah,

sd	I only rented it, you know, maybe a month ago	b	Uh huh.

qy	but. Have you seen that?	ng	I haven't seen that yet.

sd	and there might be a word or two changed.	b	Right.

sv	but it's, it's a glorious movie	br	 Such as .

sd	but there are also these various, David Lynch movies.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That made me go out and watch every David Lynch movie I could lay my hands on.	b	really.

sd	 well, I don't especially recommend,	qy^d	They're really good?

qy	did you see TWIN PEAKS?	nn	Huh uh,

sv	So, if you weren't drawn to watch that, maybe you wouldn't be drawn to these movies, either.	b	Uh huh.

sv	they're just strange.	qr	I mean, is it, like mystery, or suspense

sd	and, in the case of TWIN PEAK there's some elements of the supernatural in it, too.	b	really.

sv	it would have made, you know, these Fellini movies look normal.	b	Right.

na	I do like movies a lot.	bk	Right.

qy	do you rent them,	nn	no,

b	Yes.	h	but, I don't know,

sd	I mean, she falls asleep .	b	Uh huh.

sd	So we have to pick just the right kind of movie to, to, to appeal.	b	Yeah.

fc	Take care.	fc	Uh huh.

fc	bye.	fc	Bye bye.

qw	How do you get your news mostly?	sd	Generally, I get most of my news from, the radio.

b	Uh huh.	sd	also, since my wife likes to watch T V, sometimes, just being there you know, I have to watch the news late at night with T V.

b^r	uh huh.	qo	How about you?

sd	Well, I can hardly wait for my morning paper to come.	b	Uh huh

sd	It's really funny because, my sister grabs the sports and I grab the headlines .	b	Uh huh.

sd	so about every hour it breaks in and gives me news too, you know.	b	Okay.

sd^e	I just have a channel that has music except for, like every hour, you know, say eight o'clock, nine o'clock, they come on for just a little bit of the news.	b	Sure.

qy	can you hold on just for a second?	na	Sure.

ad	Just a minute.	fp	Yes.

fa	I'm sorry to keep you waiting .	bd	Okay .

sd	and that was a call waiting.	b	Right.

aa	That's true too.	sd	And, you know, also late at night, you know, I don't like watching the news late at night

b^r	uh huh.	sd	but, you know, I wish I had, more news on things like, that I consider long range. Things like science and medicine

b	Uh huh.	sd	I guess I'm more into science and science fiction

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, a lot of the news isn't that interesting to me.

sv	There is a lot of it that's just garbage, as far as I'm concerned, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I just like more or less, the, the daily news, you know. Just, especially the weather.	b	Yeah.

sd	I like that .	sd	Me, too.

sv	Although they're usually wrong .	aa	Yeah,

sd	but that's how long it is.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, seems like they have the local news and they have the world news.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then, my morning paper. I can hardly wait for it to come.	b	Yeah.

aa	huh uh.	b	No .

sd	But I've always been a morning person to get up, you know.	b	Uh huh.

fc	But anyhow. Well, listen, I guess that's about it then.	fc	Okay.

fc	It's been nice talking to you Tony.	fc	Nice talking to you.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

sv	it might this time.	aa	That's right.

fc	Okay, Tony.	fc	Take it easy.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye .

qo	I mean, what thoughts do you have on the subject?	sd	you know, we even lived there for a while when my husband was in the Navy.

qy^d	you did?	sd	In fact the first year we were married, he had been there two years when we got married

b	Uh huh.	sv	 it was very nice,

sd	I went to an inner city high school in Chicago.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was a divorce situation of my parents.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it was a cultural shock to me. in terms of what I went through.	ba	I'm sure.

sd	and now it's called Roberto Clemente .	sd	Roberto died while we were there as a matter of fact.

sd	yeah, that's exactly, about twenty years now.	b	Yeah.

qy	I mean did you find that people appreciated having the privilege of being,	sv	It's like anywhere else.

sd	I agree with that,	sd	And, I can understand the frustration you must have gone through, going to the school,

sd	I didn't mean that in a totally negative sense.	aa	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I had gone to a very, , conservative, college

b	Uh huh.	sd	They weren't like any of the Mexican American or black people I had gone to school with

sv	and I would say the majority appreciated what they were having in this country.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, you know, Chicago, back then, even had bilingual classes.	bh	really.

sd	so if you can imagine how I even go , ,	ba	my.

sv	I mean, and I guess I look at is as an enlightening sense.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, I don't really have enough in terms of an argument, pro or con in terms of making any type of change.	sd	I'm not, so much against their making, it a state.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But I would want a very, very clear majority,

aa	that's exactly.	sv	And well, the, a, a few can make it miserable for everybody else.

sd	I've been back up for a reunion.	sv	that my give you a clue.

sd	I mean my husband, grew up in, a majority, WASP, southern Ohio, you know.	b	Uh huh.

qh	And yet, how did I turn out the way I did turn out.	b	Yeah,

sv	so you know that parts of it are beautiful and parts of it are squalor.	sv	Same as any other part of the world,

aa	Like here, yeah, it's the same.	b	really.

b	Uh huh.	sv	they have the best of both worlds.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they don't have to pay all the taxes and so forth that we do.

aa	This is true.	sd	being that it's an island economy,

sd	I know what you're saying,	sd	So, so you know, I would just as soon,

"	and emotionally that the people there wanted it.	b	Right.

qy^g	I mean, right now they have the privilege of voting with the United States, don't they.	ny	Yeah,

sd	We traveled a lot to the B V I, the British Virgin Islands.	b	yes,

sd	So you always pass through San Juan in going to places like or .	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's, I think what they do need is an infusion of some of the United States, privileges, some of our resources. The educational, the teachers, the, academic opportunity, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't think we do enough of a resource transfer, if there is such a thing.	sv	Part of that though has been, I think, selected by them, in that whereas they want the benefits of, of what the continentals can offer,

b	Uh huh.	sv	they, they want to maintain that, culture of theirs, which I understand.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and so often when you bring in the advantages, the resources and so forth, there is a trade.

bf	They'll lose their ethnicity as they say,	sd	Most of the people that i , that I know about who really, would, favor statehood, have pretty much assimilated into the continental states already.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Or they have family here and this way they can go back and forth

b	Uh huh.	sv	That's the way the pendulum seems to be swinging, right now.

qy	I mean to this day are you still in touch with any native Puerto Ricans that you have made friends with,	nn	No,

sv	and the one right after us, their parents did not want to acclimate to the United States. in terms of retaining,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and their background it would be, you know, we , I guess I would say the Latin or Latino heritage.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But on the other hand, I guess it's all about choice in everything.	b	Yeah.

qy	I mean, were they glad?	^h	There really were three major, camps,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and there were those who, were very friendly, very open, any, anything we can do for you,

b	Yeah.	sv	and, it was interesting,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't think of the term

sd	I know what you're talking about	sd	And with banners and a parade of vehicles with their colors of the, of a particular party.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So they were very, very, passionate, about their beliefs

b	Uh huh.	sv	but it, it kind of broke down that you couldn't really see,

sd	I've got to go, because that's my cordless battery going.	b	I see,

fa	I'm sorry .	sd	Well I have enjoyed it.

fc	and, thank you for your time.	fc	Uh huh.

fc	bye bye .	fc	Bye bye.

o	okay.	qw	what is,

sd	this is strange because I pressed one and I thought it said begin.	b	Oh.

sd	I'll tell you, what I'm going to have. if I can find it.	ba	that's wonderful.

sd	I don't know if it will come out.	qr	what kind of fondue, the cheese dip or,

sd	I won't have a sharp cheddar because for fondue I think it should be a little calmer than real sharp, cheddar.	b	Right.

sd	And then I was going to make other things like potato skins.	ba	that sounds good.

sd	And, I was going to have broccoli and cauliflower for a vegetable.	sv	That's always a good thing.

sv	it's amazing how vegetables trays will go at a party.	aa	definitely.

sd	instead of something greasy or,	aa	Right,

sd	I think they try and suggest it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You take little toothpicks and cut up, pineapple and strawberry, and even banana if you can do it just before you leave.	b	Oh.

sd	It stays nice and fresh.	aa	Right,

sd	I like those .	b	Yep.

sv	But they look easy enough to make	sv	I think it would be a lot of work

b	Yeah.	sv	you have to cut each thing or, you know, use the melon baller and stuff

sv	you get this, probably pretty sticky after you get done.	b	yeah

sd	Then you've got to drain the water out of the watermelon because, you know, when you scrape it, it makes the water.	b	Right.

^q	Go buy me some strawberries.	qy	is that good?

sd	but if you get a sour strawberry,	qy^g	I bet it doesn't mix well, does it?

sd	they're coming up from Florida,	ba	well, that's good

b	Yeah.	sd	of course, they had to be, grown in greenhouses and stuff and in ,

sv	actually I think they get, some of them from South America.	bh	is that right?

sd	Of course, their seasons are switched.	b	Uh huh.

qy	So, do you want to discuss the recipe?	nd	Well,

co	I have a recipe if you want .	aa	Okay,

sd	but I make my own homemade pudding just because I don't like box pudding.	bh	Is that right?

ad	and you put it on a really low heat.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, no matter how careful you are you still might get a film on the bottom of the pot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	they're called moo goo leaves or something	sv	I think I know what you're talk ,

sv	They're real neat.	bk	yeah,

sv	but I don't think it gets it good enough.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it gets like little globs of this rubbery cornstarch,	b@	huh. 

sd	once it starts boiling, I cook it for a good seven minutes, seven to ten minutes	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that makes french vanilla, custard.	ba	wow.

sd	A chocolate powder.	br^r	unsweetened?

sd	It comes in like a real dark can,	b	Yeah.

sd	our mothers used to use it.	sd	I have some .

sd	we all used to,	sd	I just want to,

sd	it's not like Nestles Quik.	b	Right.

sv	I suppose you could use that.	bf	Cooking chocolate.

ny	Yeah,	sv	That's really interesting,

^q	this is kind of groedy .	qw	Well, how did you get a recipe for pudding on your own?

sd	I mean, something she had collected out of WOMAN'S DAY or something.	bh	Is that right?

sv	I think you couldn't make it with a hand whisk or a regular beater	bf	It would probably be a lot more work and probably not turn out as good.

sd	the trick is to get the cornstarch,	b	Uh huh.

sd	once it hits the top of the liquid it seems to make little balls and stuff on the top.	qy^d	So you put the milk in the cornstarch?

sd	I'll put the eggs in the same dish and beat them up and then pour the cornstarch and the milk mixture in the egg.	qy^d	And then put that back in the saucepan?

sd(^q)	he says, I can stick the spoon right in this.	b	Oh.

sd	when you cook a package, it's a little less,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so you can put, Saran Wrap over the top.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I might put it back on.	qy	do you put it in the refrigerator then

sd^e	well when it starts steaming a lot, I definitely, yeah, put it in the refrigerator,	b	Uh huh.

sd	my father always told me if you put hot food in your refrigerator you're going to make it work too hard.	b	Right,

b	yeah,	b	Yeah.

sd	so, , that's why I do that.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Actually I'm in Plano, too .

bd	That's okay.	sd	I say Dallas area when I'm talking to people elsewhere.

sd	it's more, concentrated, so they know where you are.	b	Yeah.

sd	and that's one thing that started in the community.	qy	They actually pay you money for that?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	Brookshires up in Allen, you bring you know, they, the plastic bags back or the paper bags, you put them in the receptacles there,

sd	and yet, I know that, some of the stores will actually help the community, not pay you the money back, but will pay the, community, like through the schools or things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I know that we have the can, the can, different can banks around the city that you can go to and do that.	b	Right.

sd	but I know on Monday, the garbage men pick up like just, any limbs or any extra trash that you might have,	b	Right.

sv	And that might be an extra day to put out things that might be recycled if we had a certain colored can to put them in or something in the city to put, like either glass or newspapers or whatever.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	but I think that's the way we need to go.

sd	I know getting a newspaper everyday, I know I could just, you know, do that because I have to pick it up,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it really could be recycled.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	Did you?	ny	yeah,

ad	Tell me.	sv	it's not bad,

qy	Don't you have to take like labels off of those jars?	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't scrub them or anything,

sd^m	Take them off,	ad	throw the lids and everything out,

^2	both liter sodas	aa	Yes

qy	can you do that.	na	those also.

bk	Okay.	sd	and then, of course, cans, coke cans, whatever.

b^r	right.	sd	But, I haven't been down to the recycling center yet to find out exactly what they need or what they take, and all that,

sd	and I don't know what it would take to get my children to start working on it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I have two older ones that probably would go along with if I had it arranged so that it wasn't a big project, you know.	sv	yeah, it's not a big deal.

aa	Okay,	sd(^q)	when I went back to the store, and I said, Hey, I understand you all are taking these bags back, you know, what do you do with them.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	And they said, Well, people come in and put anything in the receptacles.

b	Oh.	b	Yeah,

o*	should begin. / * listen; could probably code if we could tell if it said "we" or "you"	aa	Okay.

sd	basically I work for Honeywell in Minneapolis	b	Uh huh.

sd	They cover, just about everything, vision, dental, medical	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	so I'm pretty satisfied myself.	b^r	Uh huh.

qw	what's your situation?	sd	I work for the University of New Hampshire,

b	Oh.	sd	overall I'm satisfied with it.

qy	Are you a professor there?	nn	No,

bk	okay.	sd	so the benefits,

aa	no doubt .	sd	We get fifteen days a year sick time,

ba	Well, that's good.	b	Yeah.

sd	and being a government organization you got quite a few holidays off.	b	Right.

sd	You maybe get two or three a year.	b	Uh huh.

sv	unless you have some vacation time or some sick leave or whatever, you kind of have to finagle your way around to get that time.	b	Uh huh.

qw	What do you consider most important, you think, in terms of the different benefits?	sv	Well, I think, the health care, of course, is an important, and has to be the single most important benefit

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, the rates that we keep paying seem to keep increasing, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm a little disturbed about that,

sd	they basically reviewed Oregon's plan or The Oregon Plan toward, nationalizing health care and that kind of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They've essentially made up a list of, all the different, medical maladies that you can have and then basically made a cutoff,	b	yeah.

sd	if you don't, you're kind of out of luck	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think health care is probably the most pressing the pressing one,	b	Right.

sd	and I know historically a lot of companies I think carried dental as a rider along with the medical	b	Uh huh.

qw	how does, University of New Hampshire handle it?	sd	Well, we have two different plans that we can subscribe to under dental, depending,

ba	Great.	sd	and, it covers the bulk of the dental expenses.

qy	is that generally across the board, do you think	ny	yes,

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think the health and all that and the dental is the same for everybody, and the retirement plan.

bk	okay.	sd	for the operating staff it's it's, you know, based on how long they've worked there.

b	Right.	sd	That determines how much, vacation time they get.

sd	I'm kind of interested because actually, that's the route I'd like to take when I finally get my degree is to teach in a university.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm a doctoral student in Florida right now	b	Oh.

sd	That's one of the things I'd like to think about is in what kind of benefits they would cover and things like that.	sd	College programs belong to this T I A A, C R E F retirement fund.

bh	is that right?	na	Right,

ad	tell me some about your camping experiences, Carolyn.	sd	Well, I have gone to girls camp a few times, as you know, a chaperon or a leader, whatever

bk	Okay.	sd	and, I enjoy camping.

qw	Wh , where do you go camping at around here?	sd	we went camping at, Lake Bonham, which is pretty close here.

bk	Okay.	sd	and it got really cold at night,

qw	what activities do you do when you're camping?	sd	we take little nature hikes

sd	I grew up in South Dakota, up in the Black Hills	b	Oh.

sd	It was a different experience camping in the hills versus camping just by a river	b	Uh huh.

ad	Go ahead.	sd	We used to live in Utah

b	Okay.	sd	and, of course, there's lots of mountains around there to camp in, and streams and stuff.

qy	Now are there any mountains or big rocks a person could hike around this area.	ng	I'm not acquainted with any, you know,

bk	Okay.	sv	there's a Tyler State Park that's, really a nice camping area,

b	Uh huh.	sv	The Rocky Mountains are so much, bigger than anything that they've they've got down here that,

qy	the one in Tyler, has it been pretty commercialized, I suppose?	nn	No,

bk	Okay.	sv	they're not bad.

qy^d	helps keep the pests out, I suppose.	ny	Yeah,

sv	but, you know, it sure beats driving a thousand miles, to find a mountain, I guess.	aa	Yeah,

sd^e	we just moved down in June.	b	I see.

sd	if I can get on Central from anywhere, I'm happy.	b	Yeah.

b	Okay.	sd	It just gets so hot in the summer you can hardly,

sv	I guess my feelings are that, we almost have a universal health care system, to a great degree, except that now I read where we've left out about thirty four million people.	b	Oh.

sv	because it's going to become an obligation of either state, local or federal government, anyway.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, it seems to me that I'm paying anyway, because or my insurance carrier, anyway, when I pay something, the bills seem inordinately high.	aa	definitely.

sv	And the reason that they're inordinately high is because that has, to cover the costs for the indigent people who apparently don't have the money or the wherewithal to do that.	b	Right.

sv	It would seem to spread it out a little better if the employers who, employ these people, and pay them, you know, subminimum wages or whatever, were asked to share their fair burden of this too, just as my employer is.	b	Yeah.

sv	And myself, I guess.	b	Yeah,

qw	Well well, who else is going to do this, then?	qh	Do they wind up with more red tape, and more problems then?

sd	I mean, it's worked successfully in Europe.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I travel extensively and spend, maybe half a year in Europe every year,	b	Oh.

sv	and, people don't seem to be reluctant to use them to any degree.	b	Yeah.

sd	As a matter of fact, if I'm injured or have an emergency when I'm, say in Germany or France, that, I'm automatically taken care of,	ba	Wow.

sd	I mean I don't even have to pay.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well I, I know it.	^g	Well, you know ?

sd	well, my father's not living but my mother is,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, the, absolute uncontrollable situation that we find ourselves in,	b	Yeah.

sv	The young people aren't getting the proper care that they need, and nutrition, I think,	b	Yeah,

sv	and we're spending on these many times useless and inordinately complex unnecessary tests in hospitals for older people.	ba	it's unbelievable how much you go through.

sv	I mean, it does, seem like we're, th , th ,	sv	it was just strange.

sd	now I noticed just the other day in the paper that payments will be based not, just on cost, but on cost effectiveness.	sv	well, that should help.

sd	we'll see how that goes.	b	Yeah

sd	but we'll see what happens.	ba	I see .

sd	at least I've blown off steam of the way I feel about it.	b	Okay,

qy	Okay?	na	Okay,

qw	What was one of the latest ones that you've seen, actually?	sd	I think we rented PRETTY WOMAN a couple months ago.

sd	I've, become available to come and go more often,	b	Uh huh.

^q	and I can see what I please."	b	Yeah.

sd	kind of gory and lots of, you know action.	b	Uh huh.

sd	do you know that I don't follow performers,	b	Oh.

sd	Some I know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	some I don't.	b	Yeah.

sd	the guy that played in it, he was not the star, but the one that played in it that I liked best was the one who was in, the one about the old people.	qy^d	COCOON?

ny	uh huh.	b	Okay.

sd	He was a blond haired, heavyset alien in COCOON.	b	okay.

sd	I don't know what his name is.	sd	I think I know who you are talking about though.

sd	That was with Richard Dreyfuss.	b	Okay.

sv	but it was, a very, it was a poignant humor	b	Uh huh.

sv	The characters played very well off one another.	b	Uh huh.

qw	What are some others that you have seen lately?	^h	I'm trying to think,

sd^2	That's one I can watch, over and over and over again.	aa	Yeah.

sv	There are a number of good movies like that.	b	Yeah,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	and I guess, more than anything, that is why we don't go.

b	Yeah.	sv	Plus, by the time you get a baby sitter, and then pay to go to the movies it just gets pretty expensive.

qy^d	You don't work?	nn	No,

ad	Well, you are going to have to find a mother's day out and have him call in sick one day.	b	Yeah.

sv	and the price is as reasonable as renting a video.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I go quite frequently.	b	Uh huh.

sd	now I was WARLOCK too, which is supposed to be the story of a, witch hunt that is, you know, magically shot into the present time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	there was more gore than I was interested in seeing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, the action was comfortable	b	Yeah.

sv	but they were done a little more tastefully.	b	Yeah.

sv	that's a wonderful, wonderful job by Robin Williams and Peter De Niro.	br	Robert De Niro?

qw^g	what did I say, Peter?	sd	I think you said Peter.

sd	I said Robert De Niro.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, he has done a really good job of characterizing the, disabled person.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Even when he's sad, you know, you great faith that he will get happy again.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they will be videos.	b	Yeah .

sd	And, I understand that's a sequel to an earlier movie that showed about two weeks ago on television.	sd	Well, you know, I think I read about that too.

sd	I want to go see that.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I'm going to try to get in DANCES WITH WOLVES.	qy^d	you haven't,

sd	but it's just that they are both very long movies,	b	Yeah.

sd	and the matinee starts before I can get away from work.	b	Oh.

sd	And, after that I get involved in other things and don't want to don't want to go back.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, I thought that was really good.

sd	and I cannot remember too much about it.	sd	It was the one where he was a defense,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And there was a murder of one of the women that was in the D A 's office.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then he ended up being accused of it.

sd	I remember.	b	Yeah,

h	I don't know	aa	I was never into those movies, either.

sv	But, he has really developed into a marvelous character actor as he has come older.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think that beard gives him a look that he is always grinning, whether he is or not.	b	Yeah.

sv	It just was not enough to it.	qw	What was the last one?

sd	it was called, HARD WAY, where he was an actor, trying to portray trying to portray a policeman.	b	okay,

sd^e	I live in Dallas.	qy^d	Now I understand that, the real estate market out there has really gone crazy, up and down, up and down.

qy	are you in a house?	ny	Yeah,

bk	Okay.	b	Yeah,

sd	and the carpet was new	qy	Do you live in the high rise?

sd	It's just a two story building.	bk	Uh huh.

sd	On the first floor, where I am, there's a patio.	b	okay.

ny	Yeah.	bk	okay.

sd	and, let's see, I have two bedrooms.	ba	that's nice.

sd	but they didn't provide it.	bk	Oh.

sd	and that's one of the reasons that I did move.	b	Yeah.

sv	Get tired of dragging clothes to the laundromat .	aa	Yeah.

ad	So, tell me ab ,	b^r	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	The past, year and a half prices have gone down which is totally new for northern Virginia.

sv	It just , It's a real good ,	sd	It just never happened before.

sv	it's a good time to buy, if you're in the market.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we have a three bedroom house.

qy^d	so you want a bigger one.	ny	Yeah,

sd	My parents in New York had, a, three family house.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then they rented the third floor with the whole apartment, you know.	b	Oh.

sd	But, in Dallas I just, I just haven't seen basements in houses.	b	Yeah,

sd	And I've looked at a lot of them, you know .	b	Yeah,

aa	No,	sd	They put pools and garages on, but, no basements .

sd	I haven't, I have yet to see a basement in a house.	sv	Maybe it's all the sand.

sd	there are some areas though where they have a problem with, the houses kind of sinking a little bit to the,	b	Uh huh.

sd	But you have to know the right spot, to pick where that doesn't happen.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's just, you go down four inches

b	Yeah.	sd	And so any place where they put a basement in they had to blast .

b	I see.	sd	It's just solid sandstone.

qy	Where did you say you're at, Colorado?	nn	No,

sd	That's right .	b	Yeah,

qy^d	Anywhere near, Virginia Beach?	ny	yeah,

sd	because down in east Texas there's a lot of red clay.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, in the Dallas, you know, Fort Worth city areas you don't see that.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sd	But, that's the same way out here

b	Uh huh.	sd	and anything instead the highway, the real estate's forty thousand dollars more expensive.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, you know, I, I, I could never afford a house inside the beltway.

b	I see.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	not too much of northern Virginia is like that anymore.

qy	So, is your house in an area by itself?	nn	No,

qy^d	it's not connected to another one?	ny	yeah,

qy^g	But they're not connected are they?	nn	no.

b	Yeah.	sd	my folks, had an apartment for a while when we were kids

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that's all I ever knew growing up,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	so. I stayed in a townhouse for, two years and then, saved up enough money to get a,

fp	Hi Pat.	fp	Hi.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But we are not living in that world.

sv	our families have changed.	b	Uh huh,

sv	Society has changed.	aa	yeah,

sv	Everything has changed.	b	Uh huh .

b	Uh huh.	ad	You know, let the world train them what to do .

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And I really would be at a loss to raise and train a girl.

sv	well even raising boys today is different though, because, they are expected to do so much more than they used to.	aa	sure.

sv	It's, some good, some bad,	aa	sure.

sd	I have chosen to stay at home, and raise my children.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I have a ten year old and a twelve year old.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	And I was a single parent for awhile and worked.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and you know, that was wonderful.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	But I thank God everyday now that I have that choice. And that I am able to do things at home	b	Sure.

sd	and I volunteer a whole lot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, that's my job right now.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	And I love it.	b	yeah.

sd	I really love it.	sd(^q)	I did very much the same thing until my boys got into high school and said Mom, please do not be involved.

aa^r	right.	sd	Then I went back to work.

sd	and that will come.	b	Yeah.

sd	I know that day will come,	b	Sure.

sd	and I am looking forward to that too.	b	Right.

sd	But that's a different phase in my life,	b^r	Right.

sd	and I am glad that I am able to do what I want to do right now.	sv	Well, you know, there's a lot of things that have happened, actually,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	women at one time did very heavy physical labor and, were expected to maintain a household.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	Then as times changed, as it is today, we do not do a lot of physical labor, even in housekeeping, and homemaking,

b^r	Right.	sv	there's not a lot of physical labor, because, there are,

bf	You are not beating rugs,	aa	Uh huh.

bf	you are not, right, doing laundry by hand and that kind of thing.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	or we really do develop some health problems.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, in that, in that respect I am not so sure that the hard work of years past was not better for us than we are willing to admit.

sv	I mean, you know, men are sitting behind desks a whole lot more, than they used to.	aa	absolutely true

b^r	yeah.	sv	but specifically the woman's role, in society has changed.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know, medical reports tell us that women are developing diseases now that used to be predominately male diseases.

b^r	right.	sd	Heart disease was characteristic of men,

b^r	Right.	sd	now there's almost equally predominant in women.

bf	And stress disorders and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

b^m	Uh huh.	b^r	Uh huh.

b^r	Uh huh.	b	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I do not know what the healing process would be or what was causing the problem,

b^r	yeah.	sd(^q)	But, I do know that in raising my boys, I really did meet a lot of pressures saying, you know, you need to get them into music lessons,

b^r	uh huh.	^q	you need to get them into this,

b^r	right.	sd	otherwise, I will guard their ability to have quiet time.

sv	You know, it's funny,	sd	I refused to cram their lives full.

sd	I was rea , I was really looking forward to summer, thinking we are going to have some time off.	sv	And that's the way it is with a woman too.

sd	And actually, today is really as far as I am concerned, the first day of summer . Because we have had so much going on the past few weeks.	b	Uh huh.

aa	And, you are right,	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	well that's how society has changed, you know,	b	Uh huh,

sv	you know, we find ourselves doing things that, we never did as kids.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, I do not remember, being involved in things like this.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's different,	b	Uh huh.

sv	only time will tell whether it's better or worse, than the way we grew up.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, it's just very different.	aa	Of course.

aa^r	yeah.	sd	And I guarded my children's rights for that

b	Uh huh.	sv	They are sacrificing their time with themselves.

b^r	Right.	sv	You are finding out who you are.

qh	But is not that difficult to do when you are working full time and have to come home and prepare a meal and, get homework done,	sv	Well, I think,

qh	and, you know, where do you find the time.	sv	Well, in the first place it's not your homework,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I was always very careful to be there only when they came to me and asked me for help,

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I helped them with exactly what they asked for

b	Yeah.	sv	That's a part of the problem that women have always had

qy^g	And then that way, we have not changed in, hundreds of years, have we.	aa	That's right.

b	Yeah.	sv	That way husbands are crippled,

b^r	Yeah.	sv	they are intellectual cripples,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and so are children.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	They do not know how to think for themselves and be responsible, for themselves.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I do not know why God made women brilliant .

bf	Didn't he though .	aa	Yes,

aa	That's very true.	sv	and that's never changed.

^q	I am having a problem with, you know, another member of the family,	b	Uh huh.

^q	I will not.	b^r	Uh huh.

^q	You know, you work it out for yourself.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And it's amazing, she said, you know,	b^r	Uh huh.

^q	and they suck me into these arguments and, these conversations	b	That's right.

sd(^q)	And she said I am not doing it anymore.	sv	You know I think that's one of the things that we have today that is very useful,

b	uh huh.	sd	we are not talking about strikes or things

b^r	yeah.	sd	because, the mediator is an unbiased bystander who,

qw	who do you like? .	b	Okay,

sd	that's the same with me.	sv	it's, course country

qw	and who's the other big guy?	sd	Well, in Oklahoma we say Garth Brooks .

sv	And Kenny Rogers, he's kind of country verge, you know on the verge of country western.	b	Right.

ba	wonderful.	sd	so he's a home boy .

sd	and so, you know, I'm, hear the rock music, not the hard rock, but the, you know, Michael Bolton type stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He's my personal favorite.	sd	My son is, twenty eight,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	I can't say he's real crazy about elevator music, as he calls it.

sd	But I've got teenagers,	sd	Well, my teenagers are all gone.

sd	that's probably my all time favorite.	sd	You know, I teach

b	Right.	sv	and I find that the classical music is very good for the kids too, it doesn't disturb them and yet it's, it stimulates them,

qw	What do you teach, what grade?	sd	Well, it's nine through twelve

qw^d	A certain subject?	sd	Well, it's, business technology.

sd	my husband and I are taking a computer class at our junior college .	ba	boy,

sv	so it's very interesting.	b	yeah,

sd	the subject of music .	qy	do you play any instruments?

sd	I play the, volunteer to play the piano at the children's Christmas program for the whole grade school, which is K through six five hundred kids.	sv	Ooh, you took on a,

sd	and my little girl will start French horn next year,	sd	well, my son played the sax and drums, my daughter the piano, organ and French horn.

sd	and so I'm pushing that on my daughter because I want to play in our city band, not the symphony, with just the city band once we get the, the French horn	b	okay.

sd	Right now I'm busy chasing my kids.	b	Yes,

sv	and the kids just love him.	ba	that's wonderful,

sv	It is wonderful.	sd	I have totally a tin ear

qy	do you .	sd	and I love music.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, and I love to listen to it, love to sing, and my kids, when I was little and, they were little

qy	have you ever served as a juror?	ng	Never.

sd	I never have either.	qo	If you were, what do you think about the whole concept of a trial by your peers?

sv	But I think they've got a lot of problems.	sv	I think the major thing they need to correct is how long it takes something to get to jury, and to get to trial.

aa	True.	sd	And I don't know if that's just a pure volumes number or what,

aa	I think that's true.	sv	Hence is possible error as you can see in all the IRONSIDES, T V shows.

qy	would you prefer all trials by a judge?	nn	No,

sv	I think they sometimes get carried away by the circumstances and make huge settlements thinking well it's only going to cost the insurance company,	aa	Uh huh,

sv	when it comes to sentencing phase, I guess they tell them if the person has a previous record and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the judge decides whether or not they should hear it.	b	Right.

qy	Do you think the verdict should be completely unanimous by the jury?	no	I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they went by each one, saying guilty or innocent, guilty or innocent.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And they took it more as just like a majority.

bf	I mean, some of them said one way and some the other.	aa	Exactly,

sv	I think it does have to be unanimous.	sv	But, Rather interesting.

sd	or else it was a hung jury.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think maybe, majority might be sufficient.	b	Uh huh.

h	It's hard to say though.	qy^d	What about in international trials.

^h	Oh.	sv	I think that would be kind of interesting.

sd	I hadn't thought about international trials at all.	sv	I guess the problem with that is there's no true authority in any kind of international verdicts like, you know, the old day with the rack.

b	Right.	sd(^q)	they're going to say, Okay, you're guilty and you have to pay Kuwait four million dollars.

b	Yeah.	sd	Nobody.

b^r	Yeah,	sv	But I think it would be kind of interesting to incorporate that concept of, you know, people from different countries, in as international law also.

sv	I think maybe they'd need to be more knowledgeable though than just your average Joe off the street for something like that because of the cultural differences. Things like that.	b	Uh huh.

o@	What about uniform sentencing? Right.	qy^h	is that the crime

sd	It's not a discretionary thing.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but, I guess there should be some flexibility because every situation may be unique, that the judge can either increase that or keep it just at its minimum, things of that nature.

sv	I wish that when they sentence someone, if they're going to sentence him to five years, then make him serve five years.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sv	And I guess you're eligible after twenty seven for parole, even though you're in for life.

sv	and sometimes those people are young enough, they can still get out and cause a lot of trouble.	b	Yeah,

sv	I don't believe that very often happens.	aa	No.

sv	In fact, I think they end up worse, because the conditions are so bad.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	qh	But, who knows.

sv	I think maybe they ought to just be punished with some kind of real punishment, like hard labor for a shorter length of time, you know.	aa	I agree,

sv	Actually make them do something that's not pleasant and do it and get it over with and get back in the, you know, world and not spend so much time sitting around, letting the bad influences of the other ones rub off on them,	aa	Sure,

b	Yeah.	sv	since the state is paying for them, they should get some kind of work out of them.

sd	Something besides license plates and tiddlywinks.	aa	Exactly.

b	Yeah.	sd	Trading their lives for cigarettes those kinds of things.

fc	Well, I think that covers it.	fc	I think so.

fc	Nice talking to you.	fc	Nice talking to you also.

fc	Bye.	fc	Have a wonderful Easter.

fc	You, too.	fc	Bye.

sd	I get things ready and then I enjoy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I have fun .	b	Uh huh.

sd	That's when we camped the most.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and getting out into nature and relaxing, and having the family do a good share of the work, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the part that I did was more fun than labor because they did the running and toting chores and I just helped cook and kind of organize, you know.	b	Yeah

qy	Have you done, the big pot cooking?	no	well, it was really my ex who did the, the cooking back when we first started

sd^m	Big frying p ,	sd	you dumped everything in together

sd	and, I mean, you know, he did it up really good .	b	Oh.

sd	And so, after he took that merit badge, he did all the shopping and getting ready for it.	ba	Well that's great.

sd	like I would take corn bread and, cook a pan inside of a pan over a camp, stove.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's like an oven.	sd	Well, cooking was our secondary interest,

ad	Just put a thing on it.	h	I mean.

qw	What did you like to do most?	sd	Well really just commune with nature.

qy^g	That's neat isn't it?	sd	We started out,

sd	I agree.	sd(^q)	So my ex decided, we're going to try camping

qr	Well now in Florida, is there ti , are there times of the year when it's very comfortable to camp or is it always kind of hot.	nd	Well, ye ,

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, there's really no time of the year that you can't go.

^g	right.	ny	Yes,

sd	we have not camped a great deal here because, a good share of the time in the Summer time, it's too hot really to be very comfortable camping.	sd	Well, it just depends on where you go,

sd	when the kids were little we were in New Jersey, and in, Allendale and, Waldwick,	o@	where abouts? Uh huh.

sd	and it was so, you know, pick your own, blueberries and make blueberry pancakes for breakfast .	aa	yes,

ad	go ahead.	sd	I'm a New Yorker myself.

qw	Where did you live?	sd	A little town called Tuckaho, over by White Plains.

sv	But that is a particularly neat area for camping because,	sd	Well that I wouldn't know

sd	you don't have to go very far.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we had, little clipper sail boat.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so we would sail and, did a lot of camping that way.	sd	Well, I outgrew, sleeping bags and, tents,

sv	and it's fun, too, I think.	sd	Well I live in mine.

bh	Do you?	ny	Yes.

qy^d	so you kind of, an everyday camper .	ny	well, yes

bf	A full time camper.	aa	Yeah

qy	Well now, are you living alone now,	ny	Ye ,

bf	You and your dog, .	aa	Yeah.

sv	but, I still think it's a great way to spend a time with your family, and enjoy nature and, kind of wipe out the stress of everyday life.	aa	yes,

ad	Tell me your name again.	sd	Jack.

b^m	Jack,	b	Uh huh.

bk	all right.	qy	Are you, from Dallas too, Beth.

sd	we're in Plano,	ba	Oh!

sd	but we've been here about, eighteen years.	sd	Well that's where I am,

sd	Well we're all, lots of people from T I up this way.	b	Uh huh.

fc	good to talk to you.	fc	Nice talking to you too, Beth.

fc	bye bye.	fc	Bye.

sd	On the other hand, they really decided themselves.	b	Uh huh.

qo	what kind of experience did you have?	sd	one girl went in state and has graduated,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I have, two out of state, both in Missouri,

sv	but I think it makes a big difference in terms of finding a school that is sort of right for the child in terms of his or her happiness and, and, and the appropriate support environment and things like that.	^2	if they're content there,

b	Uh huh.	sv	if it's a halfway decent school they should be happy naturally,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and if they can get, two out of,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and so there's plenty of scholarships out there,

qrr	or did you just sort of say listen to your guidance counselors	^h	Well, they,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so he was pretty much looking for a Jesuit university,

b	Uh huh.	sd	that was limited to five or six different places

b	Yeah.	sd	and, so I didn't have that much to do,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I, you know, helped them get there as far as traveling with them to look at different places.

b	Yeah.	sd	We did do that,

sv	I think that's a great idea,	sv	Some people don't do it,

sv	it seemed expensive at the time you're doing it, but the compared to the total decision it's nothing.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	my daughter has been in Missouri for a second year,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, you know, she's already twenty one.

b	Yeah.	sd	It'll save me a lot of money because I'm not going to have to pay out of state tuition

b	Yeah.	sd	but again, that's her decision

b	Right.	sd	but I have so many students in my classes that have dropped out and come back,

sd	I mean, I found that my kids had no conception what college was really like and that the process of going around to a few schools with them really helped them understand	b	Right.

sd	and being able to go with them to at least some of them gave me a chance to explain things to them in reference to what we had seen.	aa	I think so.

ba	Good grief .	sd	Ended up going to where I used to go,

qw	What is twenty one thousand?	br	Pardon?

qw	What school is that?	sd	It's Southwest Missouri State University

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, it was twenty five hundred when I went there forty years ago,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I teach in a school about eight thousand,

aa	Yes.	sv	but it's much better than twenty one thousand.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then, those rating,

aa	Yes.	sv	I don't put that much stock in them,

b	Uh huh.	sv	probably fine just to compare.

bf	Helps to at least set up range of things to look at.	b	Right.

qrr	or do you have some,	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I probably rebelled against it.

sd	it's more just a pretty, a fairly, accurate, recording of what I spend, and what I think I am going to have to spend.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	and I have recently, gotten out of debt and everything

b^r	Yeah.	sd	I just, spent whatever came in and, never knew what came in and what went out. But, about like the government runs.

sv	That sounds real similar.	sv	So, I think it is probably better to have some sort of a, at least a record

b	yeah.	sd	and, I mean, of course, he is from the depression,

b	Sure.	sv	but, I think it would be smart if somebody would keep, some sort of a plan that works for them.

sv	and it's real fun to just see how things have changed over the years.	aa	Yeah,

ba	My goodness.	sd	I could not believe he did that,

b	Yes.	sv	but, to have looked back into the twenties, thirties and forties, it would have been fantastic, to see that.

sd	And she came upon a budget book that she had back in the thirties. when they,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean it was, it was just almost laughable in some instances that, you know,	b	Oh.

sd	of course, it's all relative, of course,	aa	I know.

sd	for a pair of shoes was like five dollars	aa	I know,

b	Oh.	sd	And I paid, between four and five dollars, in nineteen sixty.

ba	isn't that, something.	sv	And that's really crazy,

aa	that is really something.	sd	But, of course, it's just what the market will bear.

aa	That's true.	bf	If people will pay two hundred then why charge ten.

sd	that's just good old economics working.	aa	Right,

sd	And, our son could care less about a budget,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, she has everything planned so closely, that if, something goes wrong, it just throws her for a loop .	b	Uh huh.

aa	yes.	sd	The other one may be very careful,

aa	Yes.	sd	and she may marry somebody

b	Yeah.	sv	You should have one in the, in the house.

sd	and, I think that is probably what happened in our house	sd	And I think,

sd	and, that really paid off.	b	Yeah.

sd	Because when time came for him to go back to graduate school, we were in fairly good shape financially as far as not having any major debts.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	if it had not been for my wife, I would have probably been in debtor's prison, if we had one.

sd	he is, an electrical engineer. And, in fact, went through, many years of graduate school and got his P H D	bk	Oh.

sd	so we, had a lot of years of budgeting .	aa	yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	My wife is still in school getting her doctorate,

sd	Well, I'm working, I'm working on my masters degree now,	sd	and I have got,

sd	so we have had, once again, you know, a real lean year for us.	aa	I know.

b	Yeah.	sd	So we were both in the same,

sd	you know exactly what it, what it's like then.	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess you figure that that is an investment that is, really invaluable.	bf	That is the best one.

ny	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sd	And I, think that that's the way that we looked at it in our beginnings when my husband was in graduate school that there was a light at the end of that tunnel. You know, that it was worth it to save and to not have, something and, in return know that something better was going to be at the end of it	b	Right.

sv	so it really makes it easier	aa	Yeah,

sd	I am interested in that.	sd	Well, if I had your address, I would send you,

b	Oh.	sd	and I can take some real great tours to Europe.

sd	we were in England and, went to Ireland and Scotland and just rented cars and, did it on our own	b	Yeah.

qy	Is your business in Dallas then?	ny	Yeah,

bk	Okay.	sd	In the Quorum.

qy^d	you are kidding.	ny	Yeah.

sd	Well, I'm going to be teaching at Brookhaven in the fall .	b	All right,

sd	and I'm,	qy^d	K U E N,

sd	And, I will be, in the communications department teaching, English One Oh One to,	ba	Well good,

sd	I have a couple of sections.	sd	well I know Zack Miller real well.

sd	that's the guy who hired me,	ba	Well wonderful,

ba	Fantastic.	b	Okay.

fc	Well, it's been a good type conversation.	fc	Bye bye.

qo	or what do you think?	ny	yeah

bk	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think so.	b	Uh huh.

qrr	or have you,	ny	Yeah,

b	yes,	bk	Uh huh.

qy	well, have there been significant changes, do you think in the employment place, especially, say at T I.	ny	Uh huh.

qy	has anything in particular changed that you have noticed? During your time there.	sv	I guess there's more women in, what would be classified as a man's job .

qw	what kind of work do you do?	sd	I am a drafter.

bk	Uh huh.	sd	I am in a man's job .

aa	Right.	sd	But we have got more women in it now.

aa^r	yes.	sd	There's a lot of us in it.

sd	because, it used to be they were draftsman .	aa	Uh huh,

b	Right.	sd	And I want to scratch it out and put drafter .

sd	I graduated from college with my bachelor's degree in nineteen sixty four.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I was a math major, which was a real rarity, among women at that time.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I was in a lot of classes where, I was either the only girl or, you know, one of just a very, few women in the class.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I became a technical writer.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, even so, there were very, very few women in technical writing.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, that has changed a lot.	b	yeah.

sv	In recent years it has just really changed a lot.	b	Uh huh,

sv	but I think they have got a long way to go .	aa	definitely,

sd	There was something on T V the other day that said that fewer than one or two percent of the chairmen of the board, chair persons, if you will, of the board are women in this country.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I thought that, you know, that's a pretty significantly small number.	b	Yeah.

sv	So, there are some strides to be made there.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think we have come a long way, actually, when I think about, you know, when things were like even, you know, just when I was in high school, and how it is now for girls.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I guess I, the one, my one bad thing is that I wish my mother had had some of those opportunities, because, I think she rea , would have succeeded in a lot of ways, that women were not able to succeed, in her, generation.	b	yeah.

qy	So, anyway. Do you have children?	nn	No,

sv	That's always a good question.	qy	Do you?

sd^e	In fact, I have a daughter a, who just graduated in civil engineering, from college.	ba	wonderful.

sd	So, she is pretty much, although there were some other women in her class, she was, you know, one of the minorities, females in the class.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, she definitely entering into, a male profession.	aa	yeah.

sd	But, But, you know, for instance there is the organization the Society of Women Engineers,	aa^r	Yeah.

sv	so, that is recognized, as, you know, a place where women should be.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	you see it also in, like in church, where more and more women are becoming ministers. you know, in protestant congregations	b	yeah.

qy^d	I do not know if you are Roman Catholic or, you know, what you know about that.	nn	No,

sv	but, that is one area that I can see might change, but I really doubt will change .	b	Yeah,

sd	I know something.	b	Uh huh.

ad	what do you think, tell me what you think about this.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the, the role of women in combat roles during the war?	b	oh.

sd	Because, I know that now there, they want the armed forces to recognize that women can serve in combat roles.	b	Uh huh,

sd	And, I spoke because women were flying missions you know, for whatever reason, into, in the Persian Gulf war.	b	Yeah,

sd	I was listening to some of the comments on television the other day, about it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I do not know if he was a general or, you know, what his rank was, very high.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, that does not sit very well with a lot of folks, I am sure .	sv	There's some men out there that are more feminine than most women .

sv	You know, well Neil as far as I am concerned, and I could be wrong about this, the only one area where a woman could not do it is if she just physically did not have the strength, to do something.	b	Yeah,

sd	because, I think, you know, mentally, and emotionally, I think women can handle a job and, every bit as well.	aa	I do too.

b	Sure.	sd	I personally would not want to go

sd	but I am sure that there are women who would relish that, you know, kind of job.	b	yeah,

sd	So, I guess that should be taken into consideration, as well.	b	Uh huh.

sd	having a daughter who has gone into engineering, I sort of watched progress to see if she did anything differently than I did .	b	Uh huh.

sd	She's a lot more forthright about her opinions and, a little more assertive, than I think I was .	ba	Good.

sv	So, that's progress, I guess . have you talked with a lot of people in this project	b	Yeah .

b	Yeah.	sd	I am at work right now.

b	yeah.	sd	I put my work number,

b	yeah.	sd	Usually, I am not there,

b	Right,	sd^t	but I probably talked to seven or eight people.

ba	well, that's great,	b	Uh huh.

ba	that's good.	sd	I personally have not made any calls yet, myself,

b	Yeah.	sd	But I enjoy receiving them.

ba	well, that's good,	b	Uh huh,

sd	because, I, I guess I placed all but one or two of my calls. And, only because I going to make some money,	b	Uh huh,

sd	see our choir is doing this as a money raising project.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we got the connection through a T I, church member.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, so we are doing it to raise money for, a large project at church,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, so I feel like this is one way I can contribute that's not too painful . Financially painful, anyway.	b	Yeah.

sd	so, I thought, well I will just get on the stick and do it.	b	Yeah,

fc	Well, I will say good bye to you,	fc	Okay.

fc	but I have enjoyed the conversation.	fc	Well, thanks for calling.

ft	Thank you.	bd	Uh huh.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	I guess, this is a topic near and dear to my heart, since I am a healthy eater,	sd	Well, I try to be as well,

sd	and I like a good Italian restaurant or a good,	b	Uh huh.

sd	especially like good prime rib	b	Uh huh.

sv	and there are a lot of good restaurants around here.	sd	you're in New York,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's called Lawry's, like Lawry's seasoning salt

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it is absolutely wonderful.

b	Really.	sd	And, we were there a few months ago,

sd	there's a there's a place, half a mile from me here that, has, fantastic prime rib for, eleven dollars for a whole meal, you know a potato and salad and soup, and the whole nine yards,	ba	is it, okay.

b	Right.	sd	It's the best I have ever had.

sd	so, I'll have to go there when I get to get to Dallas.	b	Yeah

b	sure.	sd	I think Italian and Mexican food are probably my favorites.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I'm not into sushi or any of that kind of stuff.

sd	but I do like, like like a raw, raw bar like oysters and things like that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm an officer in the Air Force and travel quite a bit on business	b	okay.

sd	so I, find myself down in Melbourne, Florida about once a month, once every two months or so and, go and hit the oyster bars down there quite a bit	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, I love that,	^2	fresh seafood down there,

sd	you get the crabs	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's like, I can't go anywhere where I where I don't enjoy myself,	b	Yeah

aa	That's true.	sv	But it sure is good,

sv	well, it's really strange that, that seafood is so expensive, because in reality, I, say that, the oceans have the greatest resource of food on the planet,	b	Right.

sd	and yet, we as human beings, haven't figured out a way to harvest it economically	b	Right.

sd	so, we managed to, figure out how to get at just about everything else, but, but not seafood.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and around here the big spicy thing is like, buffalo wings	b	uh huh.

sv	and those are really hot and the hotter the better,	b	Yeah.

b	Sure.	sd	and, we sure go through a lot of that .

b	Yeah.	sd	But I like it hot,

sd	well, there isn't too much in the way of restaurants that I don't like.	b	Yeah.

sd	it's so hot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, but that stuff goes one notch beyond, my tolerances,	b	Uh huh

sv	So. Although I guess on this topic are to talk about the, service in a restaurant is always nice though, too	b	yeah,

sd	that's one thing,	^2	and the price. And the price. Make you want to come back.

qw	where have you all been on vacation recently?	sd^m	Recently,

br	Detroit?	ny	Yeah.

qy	Is that a nice vacation spot?	ng	Well, it wasn't really.

bk	okay.	sd	And it was, just to, have some fellowship with her.

qy^d	So you probably wouldn't recommend that as a big tourist spot?	nn	No.

ba	that would be nice.	sv	And that was real nice.

qy	Did you scuba dive there?	nn	No,

ba	that would be nice.	b	Yeah,

sd	usually when we go, we go to Colorado, to Estes Park area. Which is up kind of near Denver. And, stay in the mountains up there, do a little hiking and resting, get away from the Texas heat, that kind of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I guess it was kind of like a vacation the, whole summer long .	ba	well, that's nice.

sd	So that's probably my favorite place when I have to go somewhere on a vacation.	sd	Well, my middle daughter and her husband have just taken up a new activity,

b	Oh.	sd	And, they've been to the Guadalupe River,

sd	We, we canoed up in Arkansas at the Buffalo River.	sd	It's a whole new,

sd	but we were pretty convinced he was a full, hermit who lived up in, the woods, that he'd come in his little log boat down the river,	b	Sure.

sv	and, That's a good family place to go,	ba	that's neat.

sv	but it wasn't, you know, too easy either.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It was like,	sv	Well, you learn a lot of, skills too,

aa	That's true.	sv	and I think it really penetrates in your memory, you know, what to do, because you really have a great interest in it. Because it's something you weren't forced to do ,

b	Right.	sv	so you have kind of a relaxed mode of learning.

b	Yeah.	sv	And you're more receptive.

sd	the only other place I've ever vacationed, we'd, you know, go on camping trips up to Texoma and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then I went to England a few years ago.	ba	that's exciting.

sd	I was a, student there and spent, a semester studying abroad in London.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm probably going back there to work, for a year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I would spend all my time in London, or most of my time,	b	Uh huh.

sd	because I don't get much into you know, really urban areas a lot	b	Uh huh,

sd	but it ended up being kind of nice because you're not accountable to anyone.	b	Uh huh,

sd	You could just kind of , kind of walk around and observe,	^2	Do your own thing.

sd	I did a lot of just going out by myself and riding on the subway and watching people.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It was really interesting.	ba	That's wonderful.

ba	I know,	ba	I'll say .

sd	I haven't been to Mexico or Canada or,	sd	Well, I lived across the street almost from Canada .

b	Oh.	sv	So that, that's a nice place.

sd	I had a friend from there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I'd have to have a tour guide with me to help with all the language and all that.	aa	yes,

sd	most the places we went to Germany and Switzerland and,	qy^d	Well, you've been quite a few places there .

sd	We . We did, we whirlwinded through, Europe.	ba	Once you think about it,

sd	and you slept on the train at night.	ba	that's great.

sd	and everyone in Switzerland, knew English.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we were just , finally had to break out the phrase book and start looking up things.	b	Uh huh .

sd	That was easy to say .	bk	okay .

sd	Tried to get fondue and white wine,	b	uh huh.

sd	so we , elicited their aid for a while	bf	They kind of guided you.

sd	and, they were very helpful	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, it was a pleasant time.	ba	Well, good.

sv	There's not enough time to go see everything, and then to afford to see everything.	sv	I guess that's why we need to plan for retirement, so when we do have the free time, we'll have the means to, pursue our dreams.

b	Right.	b	Yeah.

sv	That and sleeping late .	b	Yes.

sd	I keep hoping for.	b	Uh huh.

fc	Well	sd	I understand that.

fc	And have a good afternoon.	fc	You do the same.

fc	Okay.	ft	Thank you.

fc	Good bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	We're talking about capital punishment.	b	Right.

qo	How do you feel about that Lenore ?	sd	I am very much for capital punishment.

sd	I am too, one hundred percent.	sd	My Dad retired from the federal prison of bureaus.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I've been raised around prison prisons all my life.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And I believe if you don't have a punishment befitting the crime, there's not any deterrent .

sv	There's just no deterrent.	aa	That's right.

sv	so, you know, unless they really make it rough on them going to prison for a little while is not much of a deterrent I don't think.	bf	Especially not a federal prison.

sv	Man our, prisons are so crowded that, they can commit some pretty serious crimes and be set free within a year to two.	sd	Well, see the states prisons were under a mandate to,

sd	Well, that's what ours did, same thing.	sd(^q)	And finally our governor at the time who is not in office now came in and said, okay, where we draw the line is no sex offenders will be let loose. Under early bail, you know or early, get out.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	the death penalty is not given often.

sd	It's not here either really.	sv	maybe well, it should be given, you know, I won't say sparingly,

sv	You know if they've been convicted and given an appeal and they're still convicted of a crime that's deserving of a lethal injection, let's do it and not waste so many years to do it.	b	Right.

aa	That's right.	sv	But then they're also entitled to drag it through the courts for years and years and years on appeals.

b^r	Uh huh.	sv	So somehow, you know, it doesn't really balance out too much.

bf	it works and then again it takes too long for it to work.	sv	And it seems even though, you know, that they got ,

b	Uh huh.	^q	You know, I'm tired of fighting it.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	Then the system just keeps on.

aa^r	Yeah,	sv	And at that point you know I really think there needs to be maybe a shorter appeal process.

sv	and I don't see why it couldn't be shortened considerably.	sd	Well, part of that is the overcrowding of the court system.

sv	and, that's why it's filled the prisons up so much I think.	sv	it doesn't help them any at all

sv	it doesn't.	sd	and, of course, your court system when you get into the appeals,

sd	With all these lawsuits and people suing people over ridiculous things	sv	We've gotten into a very litigious, type of life.

sd	always will be.	sv	I just feel like their crime and punishment

sv	it's it's supported with facts though.	br	What?

sv^r	It could very easily be supported with facts.	aa	Well, yes.

b	Okay.	sd	The war that just went on.

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	And then, the United States has this attitude by saying, you know, thank you for keeping us our freedom and stuff like that.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it wasn't our freedom that you were saving.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Kuwait wants to take Iraq out of the whole system, by leaving them independent.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	And so, when Iraq, you know, saw this, they said let's take over the country, which is a good idea,

ny	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	Then the United States says, okay, our oil prices are going to go up.

ny	Uh huh.	sd	well the main government in Moscow goes in there

b	Uh huh.	sv	But these countries here, which, you know, are, you know, like in NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR,

nn	huh uh.	bk	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sv	Now the problem is that nobody's going to invade anybody else's boundaries.

b	Uh huh.	b	Right,

ny	Uh huh.	sd	But all the other countries, you can fight about.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And so the thing is that you're wasting so much money to send, you know,

sv	We'll probably never know how much it actually cost.	sv	And you know, it was basically all based on oil because nobody

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, and, that's something that has been, you know, very,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I got to shoot somebody that's got the same family that I do. You know, the same relationships that I do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And just because I was born here I've got to shoot them down.

aa	that's true.	sd	but at least it was over quick

aa	Yes	sv	Now the only problem is the aftermath, that you're having so many deaths in the border with, Turkey.

sd	I don't, I really don't know what we need to do about that.	sd(^q)	Well, there's something that the U S did right which is say, say, you know, okay,

b	Uh huh.	^q	And, now, indirectly let's try to overthrow him, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they're not going to do that directly.

b	Uh huh.	^q	You know, you can seek asylum here,

b	Yeah.	^q	and you can go there,

h	I don't know if that will ever happen or not.	sv	Well the thing is that first of all they go , they have to get him.

sv	which is very difficult to do.	sv	and there's no way that you can get them, unless it's by force.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know. And then you can put him on trial.

sv	Obviously, he's not going to turn himself in.	aa	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, like if you were going to put on trial you get to live the rest of your life, but where.

aa	True,	sv	You know, and so, the thing is that once you've done something wrong, which is natio , you know, internationally recognized, then you're going to try to get out of it

b	Uh huh.	sd	And you know like he sent planes over to shoot the people down tha , that were on their way to Turkey.

b	Uh huh.	sd	He had a couple of them bombarded.

sv	obviously human life means nothing to him.	b	Huh uh.

bf	Past a point it doesn't make any difference.	aa	Yeah.

sv	It really is.	sv	we just put our goals in different, you know, levels is

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we need it desperately.

b	Yeah.	sd	But the other countries, you know, that have oil but not as big, you know, like they say, you know, like when the prices went up then they went down.

b	Uh huh.	sd	When they took that big dip it was because they discovered another big oil well somewhere in Saudi Arabia, or something.

sv	Seems like the prices never go down to where they were originally, though, before the increase started.	sv	Well, it, its an advantage.

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	You know, it's like you're saying, okay, I can bring my prices up to a dollar fifty a gallon and I'm not going to bring them back down to, you know, ninety nine cents.

b	Uh huh.	qh	Why,

aa	True.	sd	You know, I went down forty cents,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I went up ten cents.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	About the lowest I've seen gasoline in the Dallas area is, I guess, about ninety two point nine now.	br	Ninety eight?

sd	Ninety two.	ba	God.

b	really.	b	Yeah.

sd	That's the lowest I've seen.	qy	I mean, have you ever checked, like, the most money makers in nineteen, ninety.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and that was just because of the last quarter.

sd	I think Mobil was doing very well, too.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well I assume all the major brands are.	sd	I mean and what other companies went up four hundred and some percent.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And that's practically impossible to do now a days, for a company to, to shoot up in that way.

sv	that's true.	sv	And, it's just that, you know, people take advantage of that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, but still if you realize that, one barrel has {D like, how much was it, like, } forty gallons,

h	something like,	sd	it's got forty gallons

b	Yeah.	sd	and it was selling like at twenty five or something.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So you're making, you know, fifteen dollars profit, easily.

b	sure.	sv	I mean, and, the expenses, you know, of the war, you know, it's like who's gaining on this.

b	Uh huh.	b	Okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	because, see like for example, I don't know if the British government owns Shell.

sd	I'm not sure either.	sv	But the thing is like the U S government got nothing out of it. Because, well, you know, it's like the other independent companies, the gas stations, you know, they did.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, then the taxes go up

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, you know, they're just some things that might not be worth it.

sv	that's true.	qh	You know, and first of all how many people had to die before the war, you know,

b	yeah.	sv	sure, you know, like to a couple people that died there, their families don't feel it was necessary to do that.

bf	dead's dead.	aa	Yeah,

aa	That's true,	b	well.

sv	but it's interesting.	b	Yeah,

fc	take care.	fc	Bye bye.

sd^t	We're supposed to talk about the Middle East Crisis, and should we be involved and, uh, what's it going to cost us in the long run.	b	okay.

qy	Are you ready?	na	I guess so.

qy	The Middle East Crisis should we be there?	^h	dear that's a hard one.

qy^d	Well, you realize why we were in the Middle East. Why we invaded Iraq, why we were in Saudi, why we attacked Kuwait and why we are still fighting Iraq.	qy^g	Well, it's because of oil isn't it?

sv	I think it has something to do with oil, don't get me wrong.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But Saddam is a madman.	aa	yeah.

sv	Anyone that would use chemical weapons to fight his own people,	b	yeah.

sv	And, obviously, that has something to do with it.	b	yeah.

sd	I can see that he was in Kuwait	b	Uh huh.

sd	Kuwait was the nonaggressor	b	Uh huh,

sd	We have several treaties and several alliances with the Saudis that range back for probably forty years.	b	Yeah,

sd	You know they've been our through thick and thin.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They, were at the Saudi border. And ready to storm into Saudi.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Shouldn't we try and help our friends?	na	Certainly,

qh	What did we lose, forty one Americans, lives.	sd	and we won.

sv	of course, our government is full of liars, thieves, and crooks.	aa	sure.

sv	And that's, our own fault because we elected them.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I went on jury duty here not long back.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And one of the guys that was on the jury they were asking him if you could believe a lawyer or if a, lawyer's reputation was so tainted that he couldn't be believed	b	Uh huh.

sd	and one guy being selected snickered and couldn't keep his head up, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	He said that when he graduated, the day after his bar examine there in Houston.	b	Uh huh.

^q	His lips are moving.	ba	my gosh .

sv	And ninety percent of all politicians, and lawyers,	b	Uh huh.

sv	The fact that they take our money and don't do what we think is right makes them thieves.	aa	Yeah,

qy	Are we going to lose more lives there?	sd	See, and I don't know I can't tell the future that's what scares me so much about it.

sd	Well, we hit them with more in one month than we used in the last three years of Vietnam.	sd	I know.

sv	And whenever you strike on open terrain with that sheer volume there's nothing they can do about it.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	You know it's not like we threw eight aircraft over there all by ourselves and said this is wrong.	b	Uh huh.

sd	the Brits were there.	b	Right.

sd	This is with U N backing	b	Uh huh.

sd	and to some level even Russia was behind.	aa	Uh huh.

sv	So honestly if there was a well perceived war, world wide this was it.	aa	sure.

sd	But what I can't understand is then many of the Kuwaiti youth wouldn't fight.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's okay for us to go extend our youth's lives like so much water in the desert.	b	Yeah.

sv	And it's not their job to fight for their own land.	b	Yeah,

sv	And really from all indications the Iraqi beliefs, if you will, are more similar to our own.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They won't work.	sd	I didn't realize that.

sd	it was on the news last night.	ba	my word.

sd	The, U S Army is doing it all.	b	yeah.

sd	Well, they talked to one Kuwaiti woman yesterday.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And her biggest concern in life was that she couldn't get a housekeeper.	ba	You're kidding.

qy	And, do you have a housekeeper?	nn	No .

sd	Well, I wouldn't mind having one.	sd	I'd love to have one

sd	But, you know, I'd like to make sure that I have a job tomorrow first.	aa	Sure.

qy^d	you realize that the Kuwaiti government gives every Kuwaiti man, woman, and child money.	nn	no.

sd	For nothing.	b^r	For doing nothing,

sd	For sitting on there kiesters.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I love it.	b	Ah.

sv	but I probably, can never afford it	sd	well I understand and can sympathize with that because I also enjoy driving performance automobiles.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I suspect if I were to be able to get another car where object was,

sd	and we have a doctor at this hospital that has a beautiful new red Ferrari.	qy	a three twenty eight G T S?

sd	but I can't even do that because of the alarm.	qh	You just go hunting?

sd	So, I just look at it a lot .	bf	Go out and lust after it.

sv	But it sure is a pretty thing .	qy	So have you had the opportunity to drive a Ferrari?

sd	and I thought that I'd continue, to live in my house	b	Yeah,

sv	And I thought well a tent wouldn't be bad but probably not practical.	sv	Could sleep in the back of the 'vette.

b	right .	sv	I find that the Corvettes are becoming really nice cars.

qy^g	they're pretty aren't they lately .	ny	Yeah.

b	Really.	sv	It's not like driving a Winnebago or something.

^q	How about a Greyhound bus .	sd	Nice.

b	Yeah.	qy	Isn't that a practical van.

sv	It's not like driving a little sports car.	b	Yeah.

sd	I didn't know how anything worked.	bf	Well, so it was a completely new experience for you.

sd	and so, I figured there was nowhere I was to late to go that I didn't have twenty more seconds.	b	Right.

sd	You release it right at the top,	b	Yeah,

sd	so you don't have to get out or anything.	bf	So you won't get,

sd	I thought I would drown in the seconds that it took me to pull over .	ba	Whoops.

sd	But it all dried out, you know. Didn't take long when the sun came out	b	Yeah.

ny^r	yeah.	^2	With the Bluebonnets out,

qw	Well, how many credit cards do you have?	sd	I've got about four maybe.

qy	do you know any people that run up big bills?	^h	I'm you know, I'm in the age group you get out of college,

qy	Well, were you able to get one while you're in college?	ng	I don't think I ever tried.

qo	what do you think about the idea of providing one for somebody like that?	nd	well,

sd	since it's in, mo , the parent gets it for them, that really the parent becomes the one that's responsible,	b	Yeah,

bf	it's whether the parent wants to take the risk.	sd	It's your risk,

sv	and, the thing is, there some advantages, if he got off some place and stranded.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm, I'm leaning towards doing it for conven , a convenience,	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, it was a combination of things he had,	b	Uh huh.

qy^d@	but, I guess what's interesting, have you seen the, the, the ads where they're offering to extend payments from, things like the credit union's offering, /* should be more than 1 slash unit	^2	the extended loan payment for your car.

aa	yeah.	ny	Yeah.

sv	The interesting thing about that is that, that they're encouraging you to incur more debt,	sd	Well, it's, it's business,

sd	And they make more money if you extend your loan.	b	Yeah,

ny	Yes.	sd	And so they've already shifted the risk.

sv	they're not going to keep on if the car were older.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I thinks it's, I think it's poor, economics to carry all that consumer debt at least from a tax standpoint,	b	Yeah.

sd	and this year it's ten percent or so.	b	Yeah,

sv	it's interesting that, they encourage us to do things,	br	now what's ten percent, we can deduct,

o	yes.	sd	I didn't know that.

sd	if you had a thousand dollars, that means there's another hundred dollar deduction I've given you.	qy^d	I didn't think you could,

ad	and then you take ten percent of it,	sd	I've never itemized yet.

b	okay,	h	So maybe that's. Schedule A or,

sv	it's not in your best interest to borrow money from a tax standpoint.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	Sounds like you're very financially responsible.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	Well, he's had two kids in college and this kind of thing,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I agree with you	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I did buy a new house last summer.	sd	Hell, I took a five year note out on my car right when I got out of college,

sd	I bought a second hand car when I was, the middle of my senior year.	sv	Well, you think you're starting out well, until you start paying all those bills. apartment rent,

^2	Miscellaneous things like food and other things,	b	Yeah.

sv	and, it's, it's amazing what you learn.	b	Yeah,

qy	Well, anything else good to say about credit cards?	sv	you know, they're convenient, you know,

sd	it's hard to cash a check if you're out of state,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and now I'm out here in Phoenix.

sd	they don't do tha ,	sd	none of these grocery stores take any credit cards,

b	Yeah.	sv	So, that was interesting, cause I always, you know,

bf	Carry all that cash with you.	sd	you didn't have to worry about carrying that much unless I knew I,

qy	have you seen the debit cards where they actually debit your account when you,	ny	Yeah,

sv	and I think that's where,	sd	That's mostly locally,

sv	the costability of the cash flow is a big issue for them.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, it's good talking to you.	fc	All righty.

fc	Good night.	fc	All righty.

qy	Do you have any?	ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	he'd come in there as a stray.

b	All right.	sd	he's a Pomeranian and Sheltie cross.

b	Yeah.	sd	well, he was very well trained when we got him.

h	I don't think.	aa	No,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, if they were local people, they would have been able to find him.

sd	I'm a doctoral student right now	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, it's a Spanish Pointer named Domino. Kind of looks like a Dalmatian	b	yeah.

sd	and whenever anybody comes over, we all have to show him Domino you know .	ba	I think so.

sd	I j , I actually live in Florida	b	Uh huh

sd	Domino's a real good dog.	b	Yeah.

qw	what, possessed you to get the dog?	sv	Well, I guess, in one sense we felt that, it's nice to have a dog even though there are, you know, complications come with it.

b	Yeah.	sd	And then with our children,

bf	Sure learn a little bit of discipline and how to care for it and things like that.	aa	Yeah,

sv	That kind of builds some character a little bit.	aa	Well, that's the idea.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, from that aspect, I'm short on the discipline, because I don't, enforce that the kids look after the dog

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I think it, it, you know,

sv	that's something that's important for sure.	b	Yeah.

qy	I think, do you live in a, in a fairly rural part of the,	ng	Actually no,

bk	I see.	sd	might say we live right in the middle of a residential area.

b	Yeah	h	but again,

sd	I would estimate seventy pounds.	b	Yeah.

sd	it's a suburb of Orlando	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, you know, that whole space issue, I think, is real important.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah,	sd	and the larger they are, the more room they need to exercise.

sv	and that's all part of keeping your part of the relationship. You know, showing the maturity and responsibility to recognize those issues.	b	Right.

sd	My mother, she freaks out because she's got neighbors that have dogs, that don't train them	b	Uh huh.

sd	The question was, what is your opinion of youth, spending a year or two in public service.	sv	I think it would be a great idea.

b	Yeah.	sv	Seems like there's so many kids that don't have any since of, you know, what they want to be or do

sd	my only experience with it, I was in Central America for a while, and, in San Salvador, in El Salvador,	b	Huh uh.

sd	For instance, everybody had what they called there social year, that they had to put in	b	really.

sd	and basically it was a, repayment for, high school education,	b	Huh uh.

sv	I think possibly what, they're thinking about here, more external Peace Corps, Type things where we're sending people off shore.	b	Yeah.

b	Huh uh.	h	but, I don't know.

b	Yeah.	sd	I didn't know.

sd	I, guess I was of age when the Peace Corps came in, and all that.	b	Yeah,

qy	Did you ever get any information on it like,	sd	I sent off for stuff on it,

sd	That's what I was wondering about was whether they actually,	sd	You actually got paid too, while in the Peace Corps,

b	Yeah.	sv	but I guess, you could put some money aside while you were there, your expenses and,

qy	Wasn't Jimmy Carter's mama that was in the Peace Corps?	ny	Yeah,

sv	I don't know which end though.	b	Really .

sv	that's been interesting, though, the kids that have been over, you know, coming back right now, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	because from what I understand, from some of the guys I know, you know, crime, is punishable, just almost, instantly and public,	^2	Public hanging.

sv	so you don't have just a whole lot of, what we consider street crimes.	b	Yeah.

sv	but when you do that then it becomes almost, a ,	b	Yeah.

sv	people will kind of set up their own little club,	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	Might not go if it was voluntary,

qh	well, if they went AWOL, what are you going to do.	b	Yeah.

ad	Put them in jail .	h	I don't know.

aa	right.	ad	Have a vacation in Iraq for a year .

sd	he was in C C C during,	b	Yeah.

sd	and the only good thing he could ever say about, the whole Roosevelt administration was, civilian conservation corps,	b	Huh uh.

sd	He thought that was great.	b	Yeah.

sd	but that was great.	sv	Well, it seems like it would develop pride, you know, in people, if, it's in their own country.

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know.

b^r	Yeah	sd	Like to have a volunteer come here and rake leaves and mow the grass and ,

qw	who, who, who would determine what these people do.	b	Yeah,

sd	You know like C C C was run by the army	b	Huh uh.

sv	and the only opposition to it really was that it was, you know, starting some sort of a military elitist type, you know, special corps of cadre of people and that sort of thing.	b^r	Huh uh.

sv	And, when the politics get real confusing,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	they could send all the people over to, you know, one particular part of town or one particular project, that somebody had paid somebody to, you know, get supported,

sv	We've gotten to the point where, you know, if, well, if the racial make up of the group was such and such, you know, they'd have to do that percentage of work and what is perceived to be that part of town and, you know, That kind of thing.	b	Yeah.

ny	yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sv(^q)	and know matter where you build it, somebody else is going to scream, well, you didn't build one over here.	aa	Yeah.

sv	It's, the logistics of the thing that, gets you going.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	She started some type of, national organization for youth to volunteer to tutor other kids to read and, you know, do different service projects like that and trying to get youth more directed towards, you know, helpful things,

b	Huh uh.	sd	But they didn't have anything positive the kids could be doing, helping, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	so they were trying to start that out,

sv	here you are to the logistics of the thing again, you know.	b	Yeah.

sv	it's just so many	b	Yeah.

sd	My daughter in law is Panamanian, you know,	b	Huh uh.

sd	and they have situations like that down there. Where they have, the social, in some sort of way,	b	Huh uh.

sd	if you want to go to school outside the country, and many Salvadorians did, they'd go to school in Cornell, Iowa, of all places,	b	Huh uh.

sd	the ones I knew, you know, always chose the Red Cross, because they didn't do anything	b	I see.

sv	And they had all kinds of, things they could go into, agricultural, and you know, Really good stuff,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, unless there was a flood or a fire or something like that, Red Cross, it was so many of them in it, that your chance of having to do something it was very slim.	b	Yeah.

b^r	Huh uh.	sd	And, there is men and also women,

b	Yeah.	sd	and then they, you know, go and actually live in that country for the,

qy^d	Then that's, kind of a private organization,	na	Right.

sv	he was a good you know, in , instructor pilot because he considered himself indestructible,	b	yeah .

sd	so, You know, things he would do with an airplane,	b	Yeah.

sd	but any rate that's off the subject,	b	Yeah.

b	Huh uh.	sv	but, you know, that it is incredible, you know.

sd	I see how they were organized in, Central and South America	b	Yeah.

b	Oh.	qy	and, i , is he the one that got you connected with us?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Okay.

b	Yeah.	co^t	You want to punch the button and go?

qy^d	you ready?	ny	Yip .

bk	Okay.	qy	Well, are you going to buy a car soon?

sd	And when we retire we're going to buy us, you know, a new one and get rid of the two that we have right now.	qw	And what are you going to buy?

qo	how do you like that ?	qy	Well, have you been listening to Iacocca's arguments that Chrysler products are the only ones that all have air bags?

ny	yeah.	qy	Does that make a difference to you?

sv(^q)	But I keep saying lets put it off, lets put it off, because I'm hoping they'll get so many better features.	b	Yeah,

sd	Because I've seen some of you know, like the head on collision type things, when they had it , and people walk away from it.	b	Yeah.

sd	and the people walked away from the, wreck, with no scratches nothing. You know, a few bruises.	qy	did you see the,

ny	Uh huh.	qy	Did that scare you a little bit? With the lady being thrown out and run over.

sd	I would not buy a car that had the seat belt where it was hooked under the door.	sd	that a little more than scared me,

qy	would you ever have thought of that?	nn	no,

sv	you probably wouldn't have,	sd	the problem is I'm really into cars,

qy^d	I don't know if you've heard about it a few years ago, they said, you know, before they had like the shoulder strap thing where it was just like a seat belt that goes across your waist?	ny	Yeah.

sd	and it was on one of those kind of shows like TWENTY TWENTY	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so it like, you know, did something to their spinal cord	b	Yeah.

sd	then they were like paraplegics.	b	yeah,

b	Right.	sd	they were forced to go,

b	Yeah.	sd	We have a van, that, just has seat belts in the back doesn't have a shoulder harness

qy	Do you like it?	^h	I have an Arrow Star van,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we like it,

sd	The reason that we're thinking about something like that, we took a trip in my brother in law and sister in laws to Florida	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, as soon as I get my quarters in, I'm, retiring period,	b	Uh huh.

sd	that's it,	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, no more .	qy	did you, did you go to Florida in a van?

sv	but you know, I like to I mean, hear about more people that have things like that you know?	b	Yeah.

sd	the different kinds	b	Yeah.

sd	because I've only ridden in the one,	qw	what kind was it?

sv	I can't even think of the name of it now.	sv	what was remarkable, this van, even with, the,

b	Uh huh.	sd	actually I grew up in Alabama,

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, it's been four years ago,

b	Yeah.	sd	But it has a big engine,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that makes a lot of difference in those of us that live in warm climates.

t3	you remember?	sv	Well, you know, the big vans are all, real nice,

sd	it has the front and the back and you know, it has the back seat let down into I mean a queen size bed	b	yeah.

sd	and then it had the two swivels in the middle, and then the two swivel chairs on the front	b	All right.

sv	and, I mean it was fantastic,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I was scared to drive that big van.	sd	you'd be surprised if you drive one of the, the mini vans,

sv	Well, does yours have that this one had it where you know, you would see something coming in the rear view mirror, I mean not the rear, those little side mirror things	b	Yeah.

sv	and it would look like it was further back than it was.	b	Yeah

qy	does yours do that too?	ny	Yeah.

qy^d	I was wondering if all vans did that,	sv	Well you can, you can, install those mirrors,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and they're really nice,

sd	at first we were going to get a pick up truck, with a camper on the back of it, of it,	b	uh huh.

sv	I mean it's, unreal,	b	Uh huh.

sv	it just practically don't get any.	sd	Well, they have got, some of the newer ones you know, with the aerodynamic features,

sd(^q)	but I said maybe we might have to get us an economy car to pull along when we went somewhere.	b	Uh huh.

sd	if it had, the seat belts on the door now I wouldn't get it.	b	Yeah.

sd	Period.	sd	Ford now announced I think in ninety two, they're going to put, air bags in their vans.

sv	that would be good.	sv	and I think, I believe safety,

sv	I don't think they should do away with the seat belts now.	b	Yeah.

sv	but I think you need the shoulder thing	b	Yeah.

sv	but, I think you need that bag to pop out too.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, because I know so many people, here that have been killed in head on collisions, where maybe if they had that air bag, they may still be walking around.	b	Yeah.

sv	Every new car that came out, I wish they would require it in it.	sv	It would be that would do to our insurance rates, you know, if, if the insurance companies says we're not going to pay, you know, a claim, if the car doesn't have, air bags.

ny	Yeah.	sv	that wouldn't be fair

sv	They're given like, a ten year time limit where,	b	Yeah.

sv	These cars, I guess they figure all the old cars, will be off the roads or something in ten years	b^r	Yeah.

sv	and then, you know, if you didn't have a car that had one, then your insurance would go up enormously,	b	Uh huh,

bd	that's okay,	sv	I think we've probably spent a reasonable amount of time.

aa	Okay.	fc	It was good talking to you,

fc	Well, you too.	fc	Okay.

sd^e	I sure do.	qw	What do you do?

sd	I ride a bicycle quite a bit and work out with free weights .	bk	Okay,

sd	But, I haven't been doing so well this year,	ba	that's good.

ba	that's weird .	sv	that was wild .

b	yeah.	sd	But I exercised real good for a couple of years.

qw	So what's your motivation?	br^m	what's my motivation?

ny	Yeah.	sd	A friend of mine, always pushing me.

qr	Was it for health, or, to look good?	sd	I just wanted to look good,

bf	It was just a side benefit.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't think women look good with muscles.

aap	Up to a point.	sd^r	Up to a point,

b^m	Yeah.	sv	It's just some of those women that come up there looking like Arnold Schwarzenegger's sister just doesn't get it.

qrr	or do you enjoy working out.	sd	I guess it's a task 'cause I can't make myself do it lately.

sd	and, and I feel like I'm obligated to do it, because I've been doing it	b	Yeah.

sd	so I should keep up.	sv	You don't want to lose yourself.

sd	And there's some days like it's the hardest thing in the world to get started.	qw	Well how old are you?

sd	I'm, twenty seven.	bk	Okay,

sd	still young, getting older.	sd	We all are,

b	Yeah,	sv	It's not hard to stay,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean she was standing just as straight and tall

na	Right.	sd	she didn't have that at all.

b	Right.	sd	so she may be keeping that on purpose,

sd	I notice if you stay in shape you don't age as bad,	b	Uh huh .

sv	those kind of things age you more.	sv	Well smoking ages you quick,

b	Right,	sd	it puts those little wrinkles around your lips.

sd	and then you don't work out because you,	^2	You get winded.

aa	Right,	sd	I smoke a pack a day

sd	I finally quit because, like all I was doing was going down hill fast.	sd	I can't quit smoking,

b	Yeah.	sd	I can't quit smoking.

bf^m	Right back to them.	aa	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	sd	that was the only reason I quit.

b^r	yeah.	qy	But, did you ever go to like one of those health clubs or anything?

sd	and now I work out at home, because my schedule with school and work, I don't have time to get down to one.	bk	Uh huh.

sd	but, I actually prefer to work out alone.	sd	I like to work out with people,

bh	Really.	sd	I need competition, is what I need.

b	Yeah.	sd	I've got to have somebody to compete with,

sd	but when you get into some of health clubs where you just stand around and wait.	b	Uh huh,

sd	You know, I like to start, get it done and get out of there.	b	Uh huh,

sd^e	I'm not.	bk	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, you know, he's building his muscles up all day,

b	Right.	sd	He can eat like a horse, too.

sv	especially having a kid, I guess, tends to just gain weight because you have to, to, to,	aa	Yeah,

bf	Just have to start all over.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	I wasn't overweight when I got pregnant with him,

sv	some people are a little bit fanatical about it.	br	About weight?

sd^e	and about, working out and fitness, you know,	^2	Exercise.

sv	but people that live for it and, you know, eat a bunch of different pills, and, all that kind of stuff, it gets a little bit obsessive.	sd	Well that's what my friend did.

b^r	Yeah.	ad	you can take those,

sd	Steroids.	sd^m	Steroids,

sv	there's really bad for you.	sd	I was trying to say hemorrhoids, ,

b^m	hormones.	aa	Yeah,

sv	it's too dangerous.	sd	I could just see hair start growing out of my upper lip or something.

sd	and he just, really looked bad.	bh	Really.

h	And he, I don't know, just,	b	Yeah,

sv	At least you got a chance to out run them that way.	b	Yeah .

sd	and it, I like to move a little faster and cover more ground.	b	yeah,

sv	I would think it would be hard on your legs and your joints and stuff.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	but I, I like jogging,

sd	I can't.	sv	If it's hot, you can't do that.

b	Yeah.	qy^g	But you can't ride your bike at all in the rain, can you.

sv	it's dangerous.	sd	You slide.

sd	but a regular ten speed with those skinny tires, you slide all over the place.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	fc	Anyway, it's been nice talking to you.

fc	Well good luck with the new kid.	ft	Thank you,

fc	All right.	fc	All right,

sd	Wendy, I guess we get to talk about budgets tonight or lack of budgets if that may be the case and any kind of long term financial planning or anything like that,	b	Right.

qy	do you have or a monthly budget, or a long term budget that you stick to?	sd	Right now I'm in college

b	Uh huh.	sd	and so my budget comes from my dad's help.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	He helps me out a lot

sd	and we have to, pretty much stick to a budget.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, We have a fixed income	b	Oh.

sd	and, what we try and do to stick to our monthly budget is we pretty much have, you know, the house payment,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we also try and set aside money for savings, set aside money for the coll , the kids' education college education, the future and, set aside money for bonds	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	because we've been married for about ten years	ba	That sounds good.

sd	and we find out that, you know, no matter what kind of budget you stick on, there's always going to be an unexpected car repair or something happen with the house, that you have to have money for and, not enough to go and to take a loan out, but, you have to have money for.	b	Right.

sd	it's helped us, so that we haven't been, you know, too long on the month and too short on the money and try and stick with that	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	and we stick to it	ba	Well, good.

sd	and there's no surprises in that .	sv	With two kids, that could be hard.

sd	Well, actually I have four kids.	ba	Four!

sd	I have four four little boys,	ba	my goodness.

ba	You bet.	ba	my goodne ,

ba	You bet.	sd	It's just me and my sister.

b	All right .	sd	And my parents divorced three years ago

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my sister had gotten through college,

b	Yes.	sd	and then, before the divorce she had saved for my college.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, when we had the divorce, she just didn't get much money out of it and had to spend it all on getting another house.

b	Oh.	sd	So now my dad's paying for all of my college of .

ba^r	good.	sd	And financial aid and scholarships.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm a music major,

qw	well, what year are you in in college?	sd	I'm a sophomore.

qy^d	so you have a few more years.	na	Right,

qy^d	I imagine it, is a little difficult to stick with a budget during that, during school and so it forth.	na	it sure is.

b	Yes .	sd	and I don't spend over that .

bf	And sometimes that's a little hard with books and music and sheet music and stuff you've got to work on, too.	aa	sure,

qy	Well, you're not a starving artist, yet, are you?	nn	no,

ba	Good.	sd	I don't plan on being a starving artist .

ba	Well, good.	sd	That's why I'm in college .

qy^g	there's enough of those in the world,	na	Right .

sd	I'm glad to hear that, Wendy.	sv	That's usually because they're not real educated.

br	who's not very well educated?	sd	The starving ones.

aa^r	yes.	sv	There's enough out there that if you're educated enough, then you can make money.

sd	So that's why I'm planning and preparing for the, education of my children, also try and set that money aside.	b	Right.

sd	I majored in business administration.	ba	Well, good,

ad	Tell me what books you read.	fe	boy .

sd	I try to avoid the,	b	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sd	or co dependency, or, you know, fifty thousand things like John Bradshaw's books on, THE FAMILY and HOMECOMING and INNER CHILD, and so

b	Uh huh.	sd	I read usually that kind of stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	in my spare time with a two and a half and a three and a half year old , I read .

sv	That does cut into your, reading time a lot.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, but, gosh it's getting pathetic now .

sd	So, you know, I will, encourage you that you do get a little more time to yourself later on .	b	Yeah.

sd	I, won't say what.	sv	Later you're, probably looking for your kids

b	Yeah.	b	Yeah.

sd	 I'm an editor.	br	You do?

sd	And s , so, I'm at the	qw	What kind of books?

sd	and therefore, I read, psychology, sociology, anthropology, political science, philosophy, linguistics, history, 	ba	 my goodness.

sv	I've read some of it.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's, it's a great place to be	b	Yeah.

sd	If they don't, want an editor, they don't come .	b	Yeah.

sd	We, don't.	br	No?

sd	 we have books that are written here that are then published by all sorts of different, commercial and academic publishers and university presses.	sv	That sounds so familiar.

sd	So, I end up sometimes reading the things that are written here all the way through, sometimes just a few chapters because that's as far as they get .	b	Yeah.

sd	But, I also get, of course, lots of references to neat stuff to read about.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I was just thinking when they told me the topic, I should read the, titles of the five books that are sitting on my desk right now that I'm in the middle of.	b	Yeah.

sd@	And, I'm reading, WITHIN THE PLANTATION HOUSEHOLD, which is a history, sort of a sociological history of southern women, black and white living on plantations. * needs slash unit a book called POISONS OF THE PAST, which is about ergotisms, that, fungus that grows on rye	ba	 that sounds interesting.

sd	it causes the, , Saint Anthony's Fire Disease, where, people fell into fits	sv	I thought that was going to be some ,

sd	and, There is a theory, at least, that a lot of people who were accused of witchcraft were actually under the influence of erga.	ba	my goodness.

sd	like nursing, started out all men and then in the nineteenth century, began to have women.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And now it's practically all women.	b	Yeah.

sd	And the, thing that changed that was the manual typewriter.	b	Yeah.

sv	It , then it became, you see, just sort of a clerical task.	b	Oh.

sd	When you wrote it out in long hand you were a,	^2	Then you were important .

sd	You were a confidential assistant to the, person.	b	Yeah.

sd	And then, I've got a book called FASHIONS IN SCIENCE, which is a sociology that explains, why certain theories get to be popular in, sociology. And, how difficult it is to swim against the tide if you have a different idea that isn't vatted by your peers .	sv	Well, that's interesting.

sd	I haven't, got too, far into it yet.	ba	Gosh.

sd	So I got them out of the library and decided I'd read some more in them.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, I read a lot of history and, a few novels, occasional mystery stories, just, for fun.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, he's got quite a collection of those.

sv	That's, a nifty idea.	ba	Hey,

ba	Great.	b	You know, really.

sv	I think the, the boom to parents and the shoelace department was those little Velcro tabs .	b	yeah.

sv	I think that's incredibly .	sv	but there's a surprising number that are still around that don't have those,

b	Uh huh.	h	but, I'm trying to think of what else I've got.

b	Yeah.	sd	so I'm trying to get more familiarized with that because I refer clients and different groups

qw	What do you think is, the most promising, or practical book, of that kind you've read recently?	^h	I have a love affair with John Bradshaw.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then the third one that he came out with is now called HOMECOMING .

sd	He was teaching,	sv	 he's just great.

sd	 from time to time out here, we have four different P B S channels that we can get on the cable .	b	Yeah.

sd	And, they'll have all ten of those shown back to back, in the middle of the night , for people can video tape them.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, I definitely have gotten a lot out of his lately .

b	Uh huh.	sv	And she's got some fabulous workbooks out and a whole series of tapes and, a workbook called BREAKING FREE, and just some real, helpful, practical things for co dependency.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So that's been another one that I've thought was real helpful. But, other than that, my reading centers on PADDINGTON BEAR, and WINNIE THE POOH, and , DOCTOR SEUSS .

b	Oh.	sd	But, I really have enjoyed exploring children's literature because there's so much more, new things out that, you know,

sv	there's some, absolutely wonderful illustrated, children's books.	aa	I know.

b	Yeah.	sv	and they go through them so fast, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I really have been going to the library and getting my ten books out

b	right.	sv	So, that has been fun to do that {D you, know, } go through the children's literature, and, , 

sv	and, there are so many that look like they would just be absolutely wonderful.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I was tickled to see that some publisher is, reprinting the James Thurber books for children. THE, WONDERFUL O and THE THIRTEEN CLOCKS, that have been out of print for I think about twenty years.	ba	wonderful.

sd	and they really did, enjoy them.	b	Oh.

sd	 but they were, old copies then.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, I, was really happy to see that,	b	Yeah.

sd	Unfortunately, we are not much into recycling.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just don't . just from socializing with her	qw	how, is recycling done in your community?

sd	they're given three baskets	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they put them out on a certain day of the week	b	Right.

sv	and some of the communities that do, the residents are having to pay to participate in it. Which really doesn't make sense.	b	Oh.

ba	that's good.	sv	So it's nice to have, you know, one place that you can take them all to instead of driving the glass to one place

sd	You have to go to different places to do that.	b	Right.

sv	it just doesn't make sense to me.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	so I guess that's one option.

ba^r	that's good.	sd	I guess one thing they're working on now is recycling plastics too.

b	Uh huh.	qy	have you noticed that on the bottom of plastic goods, they have this little number now that tells what kind of plastic it is?

nn	No.	b	Yeah,

sd	I didn't know that.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	So I guess that makes it easy to recycle

sd	or you know, I read those little slips that come in to your, utility bills or your, garbage collection	b	Right.

sd	and they haven't, you know, talked about doing something like that .	qw	Where does your friend go to to recycle?

sd	and she takes her own bags to the grocery store .	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I really don't think she has any paper products in her house.	b	Yeah.

sd	And she does make a lot of sense.	b	Yeah.

sd	Just her whole house is like wow.	sv	I guess that's how it gets passed on. You know, when one person, you hear from another person

b	Yeah.	sv	and then and then you pass it on.

b	Yeah.	sv	It seems to be catching on, slowly but surely, I guess .

qy^d	I don't know if you know the little character Barney.	ny	Uh huh.

sd	and he's really caught on.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so that's really neat .	sv	Well, when you start early, I guess,

o	That's it.	o	Yes.

qy	Do you like the way some people in there for instance, really take over and, we have no way, of knowing whether they are legitimately right or wrong and so forth.	ny	Yeah.

qo	What do you think about these things?	sd	Well, as I look at our trial systems,

bf	so you're saying you think the judge should actually have the final say?	sv	I think he should.

sd^e	I know what you mean.	sv	and I think that it's important to have a jury, but I think the way that they go through so much time to get it a fair one.

sd	Well, I hadn't, thought of it from that point of view before.	qo	How do you feel about that?

sv	and, what bothers me is I was concerned of the ability of some of the people in the jury to adequately understand what was being presented so that they themselves could make a proper and, accurate decision.	b	Right.

sv	But I also think that the jury should be, more carefully selected to make sure that they are entirely intelligent people and that they understand some of the details that are involved so that they can make accurate decisions.	b	Right.

sv	and they just make a decision based on whether they like the dress she wore that day or whether that guy smiled or growled all the time.	b	Right.

sv	That's no way to make a decision on some terrible problem.	b	Right.

sd	we would have fifty percent of them law students, anyway . Yeah.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	sv	And that would give them, experience in the courtroom,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it could count as some aspect or hours going into their major.

sv	and they would learn a lot about being lawyers later in life when they see what it is like to be in the jury side of a trial.	b	Right.

sv^m	That would be a really good thing to do.	sd	I have a girlfriend that just went through a three year trial,

ba	For goodness sakes.	sd	And this expensive, big company that owned these motorcycles, railroaded this into three years worth of trials for this lady

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they were following him home in the car. Saw the whole thing happen.

qy^d	they saw the husband, get,	na	That's right.

b	Yeah.	sd	And they railroaded this whole trial into mistrials, this and that and the other.

^2	They would find something wrong with it.	sd	Until finally they won and, said that it was the drunk driver's fault

qy	Did they really?	sd@	and she would have to sue him. * needs slash unit Which I would think it would be some his fault,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I just felt like justice wasn't served because they had the money, the big lawyers, and she didn't,

sv	You'd think there would be enough, people who saw the accident other than his wife, to also, make statements,	b	Right.

sv	So if they say a certain way, then why not believe them.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	And I don't think that it would be such a bad idea even if the judge didn't have the final say.

qy	do you use credit cards?	ng	not very often.

bf	So it doesn't get , the credit,	aa	Right.

qy^g	if you're going to use credit cards you need to use that policy, I think, don't you? .	ny	Yeah.

sv	Otherwise, you end up paying so much more for your merchandise that it's hardly, it's not a very good idea.	aa	That's right.

sd^e	but I don't use them very much, though.	b	Right.

sv	The other thing, I think if you do get overextended a little bit, you need to be sure and pay it off, more than one at a time, because I think you could run forever paying what they require.	b	yeah.

sv	Just goes on and on.	sv	Which is what they want.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	I think a lot of people go in debt because they think, you know, I can just charge it,

aa	that's true.	sv	they, make the mistake of, pushing all their cards .

sv	There are times, when it's very useful, like, emergency trip, or something.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think, they're very helpful, plus the fact that it's helpful not to have to carry a lot of money sometimes.	b	Right.

sv	or you end up in deep trouble.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so after that I decided, well, I'm not going to use them at all, and just try to pay cash for everything

sd	If you, if you pay for everything by cash, there is a lot of things that a lot of people who will not give you credit when you need something like a house or, a car.	b	Right.

sv	so they have become a very vital part of our monetary system , over the last few years.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and an awful lot of people are in trouble.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	and he makes calls to people who have problems, you know, credit problems, that are trying to work out	b	Huh uh.

sd	and, . Poor thing he comes home very depressed every night , because the world has so many problems of that sort,	b	Oh.

sv	so it's, it's, it's, it's a really big problem I think, and, takes mature people to treat it,	b	Yeah.

sv	so that it's a real advantage to you, instead of a disadvantage.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	But now, it's punch money, because

bf^g	It didn't do you any good now, does it?	na	right.

sv	Even before it probably wasn't, though, because you didn't get anywhere near as much as what it, you didn't get to claim anywhere near what you ended up paying.	b	Yeah.

fc	It's good to talk to you.	fc	Yeah.

fc	bye now .	fc	Bye.

qw	What is your favorite show?	^h	Well, I was just trying to think.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we subscribe to C N N

b	Uh huh.	sd	And we really haven't gotten a lot into the sitcoms that are current, especially with the kids here because we have to kind of filter it before they get here.

b	Sure.	sd	We have little ones.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and we think that's kind of informative to teach them, how to handle things in situations.

b	Uh huh.	qw	What do you watch?

sd	I watch just about anything, but not a lot of, T V.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean I'll watch, you know, maybe a little while when I first get home in the evening.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I'll watch that HARD COPY or or that kind of thing, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I like the NINE ONE ONE, and UNSOLVED MYSTERIES.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I haven't gotten, into many of those.

sd	my husband is really crazy about EVENING SHADE that comes on Monday evening.	sd	I have heard that's real good.

ny	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sd	And I've got to where every Monday I rush around so I could sit and watch that with him because it's really funny.	sd	Now someone told me that

sd	so we've got to where we will sit, and watch it on Monday night,	bf	You've got to yeah,

sd	Like I say I'm not,	sd	DESIGNING WOMEN is on that night, too.

sd	and the one with the sergeant that married the woman with the kids, Sergeant McGillis .	sd	I don't even know.

sd	Sergeant, MAJOR DAD.	b	okay.

sd	that comes on right after, the EVENING SHADE and then MURPHY BROWN, and DESIGNING WOMEN.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I watch the first one then kind of sit in on the others, as I can.	b^m	On the others.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's kind of a competition on Thursdays between PRIME TIME and KNOTS LANDING.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, we used to like KNOTS LANDING a lot.

sv	Well, you can't hardly watch KNOTS LANDING with the little kids around though.	aa	I know.

sv	Except they, probably are in bed, by nine.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Did you get your pizza taken care of?	ny	Yeah,

qy	Have you watched that?	nn	No,

sv	you know, it's really pretty good.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, it's kind of like, you know, soap opera I guess.	b	Yeah,

sv	It's been pretty good. Some, pretty good acting.	sd	Well, and a , and another one now that it's getting darker

sd	Now I watched, BROOKLYN BRIDGE this week for the first time,	qy	Did you, like it?

sd	I liked it.	bh	Did you?

sd	Now I haven't seen I'LL FLY AWAY yet.	sd	I haven't seen it either.

bf	It's nearly, too late for T V.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I get in, from work	b	Yeah.

sd	so I have to get up and do dinner, and everything.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, it's like, we are kind of, tuned out of our T V.

sd	If we are home on the weekend, we always watch videos,	b	Yeah,

sv	I really probably should watch more of them than I do.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, And I don't just spend all my time,	h	I don't know,

sd	and my husband, now he sits and watches T V constantly.	b	Uh huh.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	So they are used to that too.

sd	I could be around here for hours myself and never have it on.	b	Yeah,

sd	and I'll have to watch that I'LL FLY AWAY this week.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I like her.

sd	I never get in in time for any of those.	b	Yeah.

fc	Well, it's nice talking with you.	fc	Thank you.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sv	but I guess medical insurance is probably what I consider the second most important.	aa	Yeah,

sv	no matter what you do about that, yeah, unless you're like a Senior V P or something which I am not .	b	Right.

sd	And then when you interview for a job or something sometimes people, expect the benefits to take the place of a certain salary level.	b	Uh huh.

qy	are you married?	ny	Yes.

sd	and he has other things he takes.	b	Right.

sv	So I mean in that kind of situation it's really almost, redundant, you know,	b	Uh huh,

sd	You know that some of the benefits, I would rather have, money.	b^m	Money instead.

sd	more money, actually, Or flex time or something that was a little more personal, you know.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	you don't use the medical insurance?	ng	Not at all.

qy^d	You use your company's?	na	My husband's,

qw	Where does he work if you don't mind me,	sd	he works for Bramalea Company,

qw	What's the name of that company ?	sd	Bramalea.

qw	What do they do?	sd	It's a security company

qy	Are they a big Company	ny	Yeah,

sv	see, that's probably cause Canada has the, government run health care systems, social medicine.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You don't pay a dime.	b	Right.

^g	You know?	b	Right,

ba	Sounds wonderful.	sd	the only thing we pay for is , if something happened, an emergency, and we had to have an ambulance,

sd	if I were, him, I'd tell him make sure he stays there.	aa	Really,

sd	but, and we take my dental, his medical.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And the medical I mean, I think it's terrible, you know?	b	Uh huh.

sd	but then they're getting ready to change it again for Aetna.	b	Okay.

sd	and, you know, T I just did the thing where, with the smoking premiums.	b	Uh huh.

qy	but do you know about the smoking premiums?	ny	yeah,

qy	do you guys smoke?	ng	We don't either.

b	yeah.	sd	Neither one of us do.

sv@	you don't sound like you're in this category, but I mean for extremely obese people or something?* needs slash unit note punctuation The kind of people that can't sit in the airplane chair, you know?	b	Uh huh.

qh	You know, who's going to croak first? The people that smoke or, you know?	b	Uh huh.

sv	Seems like, an unnecessary penalty,	aa	Exactly.

sd	but I just, you know, I don't how they can do it.	b	Uh huh.

sd*	Carte blanket . / * listen: probably closer to "carte blanche"	aa	Exactly.

b	Yeah.	bf@	You can't charge more for a person who's on a flight just because they're larger. * needs slash unit Yeah.

sv	but, That's why I'm not a boss, I guess .	h	I don't know.

sv	They have to be a little bit different than the American,	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they're vested a lot earlier.

sd	T I is at least, five years,	sd	Five to seven.

b	Yeah.	sd	And they're vested after their first year. totally vested.

ba	my goodness.	sd	And they have the four one K and the usual benefits like that,

sv	but that's a pretty standard thing anymore.	aa	Right,

sv	You know, husband's company probably matches more than T I, though.	ar	No,

br	they do ?	ny	Yeah,

sv	That's still pretty good, though. I mean the fact that your vested that quickly in the pension.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think E D S has seven to eight years.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So it's like T I in that respect, you know?	b	Yeah.

sd	and, I mean, and I'm working for a company that's making money .	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, E D S has a cash flow problem as they say but, not E D S, T I,	b	Yeah.

sv	I think everywhere they just need to sit down and hire some people, the grunts, as I call them, like myself to tell them,	b	Right.

sd	like T I has, no day care.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And some of the questions we're getting are on site day care and things like that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	That they consider a very serious benefit.

sd	I would, think so,	sv	They should be though.

sv	and the other thing I think is really good is that E D S is much better than T I at, I think, right now than, that we have day care, the health program like T I has Texans?	b	Uh huh.

sv	But I don't think it, that it's developed as much as it could be for the size company as T I.	b	Right.

sv	I mean if you ever walked into E D S s health, corner court health clubs on site and you walk into Spring Creek, well, Spring Creek's better than the one on Dallas Parkway	b	Uh huh.

h	but, I mean, yeah.	aa	Yeah,

ny	yeah.	ba	man.

sv	You know, instead of like six, treadmills, you've got like twenty.	b	Yeah.

sd	And E D S can't even compare in size. In terms of the number of employees.	b	yeah.

sd	I guess it's just where and like E D S reimburses you for adoption.	b	I see.

sd	And T I doesn't have anything like that.	b	Right.

sv	You know, so I guess I wish the companies like T I and a lot of others were more progressive in that respect	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean they have very strange like dress codes	b	uh huh.

sd	you can't wear slacks at the corporate site and that kind of thing unless you're in a, y , you know,	b	Right.

sd	but there aren't manufacturing environments because of the type of company it is.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess I also wish that, companies would look more at cost of living increases instead of just merit reviews.	b	Yeah.

aa@	Oh. Yeah,	sd	Like an average house is now a hundred and thirty thousand.

aa	exactly.	sv	And that is unreal, because we've got people out here that are just poverty level.

aa	I know.	sd	But then we've got these million dollar homes

aa	I know.	qh	And how does your salary deal, with that?

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's not.

sd	and I mean, I mean, I don't know how you and your husband are, too,	sv	It's just not doing it.

sd(^q)	And I said, hey, I'll probably do this even if I'm a millionaire which I won't, ever be.	b	Yeah

sv	I mean, it seems like every time you try to get ahead and take a vacation or something well, the car insurance is due .	b	Uh huh.

b	yeah.	sv	It's so strange .

sd	I don't know what we're going to do about,	bf	Common problem.

sd	I didn't say that.	b	Yeah,

sv	It's probably been too hot today for either of us to,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Usually people are all over the country.	b	Right,

aa	This is true.	sv	So somehow, we're better off than a lot of them.

sv	It's, just something you have to keep telling yourself, you know, that, that's what I want, that, you know,	aa	No .

sv	and people are lucky to have any kind of benefits.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And I went, you know, that has to be rough.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess one thing I'd like to see, too, and I don't know how T I is about this, but I'd like to see, employees rank and file be able to contribute more the execution of their job.	b	Yeah.

sv	that's a good word for it,	b	Right.

qw	How is T I in that mode?	sv	Well, very well,

b	Uh huh.	sd	At least they're making the effort to put it out there and make it available and and, cultural change within the management first.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And now it's kind of filtering down to the peon level.

b	Uh huh.	sv	It's going to take years, though.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean it's that mind set, has to change,

bf	All part of a good old boy network,	aa	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	They're pretty much if that's where the widget goes, stick it in the hole, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	They're kind of formula oriented.	bf	Doesn't want to change.

qh	so, You know, what can you tell them ?	b	Right.

ba	Really.	b	Yeah.

b	Okay ?	aa	me, too.

fc	and keep cool.	fc	Thanks.

fp	Hi Ed.	fp	Hi.

fp	Hi.	sd	books,

qw	Who wrote that?	sd	I do not remember the man's name,

b	I see.	sd	he had some accomplices that were kind of suspect,

b	Right.	sv	So, it's pretty interesting work

sv	That is an intriguing type of book to be reading and trying to keep up on things like that.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you just kind of have to read and understand what is going on.

sd	And, they have not made a movie of the week of it yet.	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	I also reading, thi ,

sd^m*	Explained , /* listen; could be br	sd	you know. and the reason I picked it back up was in light of Well when they found the, the airplanes in the Atlantic, thinking they were Flight Nineteen.

qy^d	Supposedly scooped up by the triangle.	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and in the book, you know, even,

qy	On that same topic, have you ever read anything about, you know, the Amelia Earhart story, whatever happened with her?	nn	no,

sv	I am sure there is something out there, ,	b	Yeah,

sd	Well whatever, this is one aspect of it.	b	Yeah.

sv	and it makes you think about things.	b	Right.

sv	That is for sure.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I kind of like to read different stuff

sd	I mean, usually, if I find a good book, I will sit, you know, for two days until it is finished. If it's that good,	b	Yeah.

sd	and that was PRESUMED INNOCENT.	b	Yes.

sv	It's just, incredible.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	he was an assistant district attorney in Chicago and while he was writing the book,

sd	and I think I did read Tom Wolfe and VANITY,	^2	(BONFIRE OF THE VANITY ,

aa	yeah.	sd	I have not read that, although, I have heard it is pretty good.

sv	the movie was nothing compared to the book.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I saw the movie,

sv	I mean, because Tom Wolfe is so perceptive, when it comes to, you know, pinpointing, so , society's ills and, things like that and just nailing people to the wall and exposing things	b	Yeah.

sv	and, and so, it was a much more intense book than the sort of flimflam that they cast off in the movie .	b	Right.

sd	but, gee, I like to read gardening books and things like that. Just to tell me what to do with my garden	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I'm interested in a lot of that,

sd	and I have never gotten to it .	sd	gosh, I do not really have a list,

b	Oh.	sd	I have one

sv	Our lives are built around foods that we like and, nutritionally good for us.	ba	Yes, sir.

qw	What kind of dining out do you like?	sd	Well, there is two kinds.

b	Oh.	sd	you know, something nice.

b	Yeah.	sd	And the other is with my whole family whom we, go somewhere that the kids will enjoy .

b	Uh huh.	sd	because they have got you know, good prices and everything.

qy^d	Pancho's, that's, a new one.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's a chain down he ,

sd	We have one called Chi Chi's in our area.	b	yeah.

qy	Isn't it Mexican?	sv	I think, think it might be.

qy	Do you have it there?	sd	I think I've seen it around.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I love Mexican food myself.	bh	do you?

ad	But you go ahead now .	sd	we do too.

b	Uh huh.	^h	and, let's see.

ba	boy that is wonderful.	b	Yeah.

sv	I can almost live on seafood and almost live on the crab meat if I had to.	fe	boy.

ng	but I haven't been there.	sd	that's an old established, restaurant.

qw	Where did you go to college?	sd	I went to the Naval Academy.

br^m	the U S , Naval Academy?	sd	And we used to, go up there for football games sometimes. And have some liberty.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we would go over there to,

fe	I'll be darn.	sd	I haven't been back there in years.

sd	and, all my work has been in research for the Navy .	b	Okay.

sd	Underwater acoustics.	bh	Is that right?

no	I have dealt with nearly all of the research laboratories that the country has.	ba	Yes, sir.

b	Uh huh.	sd	that's, that's where I grew up was down in Orlando.

qy^d	you grew up in Orlando.	sd	that's interesting, Well, I was in submarines.

sd	Well, that's what I worked on.	b	Okay,

sd	The end of last month.	ba	Well, great.

na	I certainly have .	b	Yeah.

sv	but, I guess we should continue on,	aa	Okay.

b^m	Okay.	b	Right.

qw	How do you like Chinese food?	sd	we do enjoy that.

sd	Well, I, enjoy the Szechuan type of, Chinese food.	br	Hot?

ny	Yes.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, it's in the sweet and sour porks and things like are just really delicious meals.	qw	Where did you learn how to do Chinese cooking?

sd	just at home.	b	Uh huh.

sv	When you find the right cookbook, why it works out.	b	Uh huh.

fe	boy.	sd	I guess one of the things we've, started avoiding is the, run of the mill chop suey and things like that.

b	right.	sd	But we enjoy trying, different kinds of chicken or, you know, even, shrimp, dishes that are fixed in a Chinese restaurant.

sd	Isabelle Chang.	bk	Okay,

sv	I think you will enjoy that.	b	Okay,

qr	Phil, I guess a good question to ask is do you do your own work, or do you like to do it?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	Now, I sort of take pride in the yard, and, you know, how the place looks,

qrr	or do you just do your landscaping now and your lawn?	na	Well, yeah, it's, it's primarily just, like landscaping a little bit.

ba	Well, that's pretty good.	b	Yeah.

sd	but this is the first time that I really have to landscape a house.	b	Yeah.

sd	It's not on a main road.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it has nothing .	b	Yeah.

sd	I think we figured out total, this is for vegetables about two thirds of an acre.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So we each have a third of an acre we do.	ba	Jeez,

sv	That's a lot .	sv	that's amazing.

sd	and he's been there for a long time	b	Right.

sd	so, it just happens they built a shopping center next to it	ba	jeez.

sd	and we grow a lot of food.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you have to step down in them now because we've tilled them so much,	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I wish this phone would stop screeching,	qy	Are you getting a lot of static on your end of the line?

sv	It's not getting any better.	aa	Yeah,

b	okay.	ba	jeez,

sd	I mean it's been dropped on the floor a hundred times.	h	Well, I don't know,

^q	Can you hear me.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, that's a heck of a pla ,

sd	we grow a lot of, the basic, corn, potatoes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, acorn squash are good winter keepers.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, things the way we grow are carrots, cabbage, that sort of goes to waste	b	Uh huh.

sd	She plants a lot of tomatoes	b	Uh huh.

sd	But she helps me a lot, too.	b	Uh huh.

h	Something,	bh	really

sd	so. I wish I knew more to tell you why,	sd	My mom put, cantaloupes and cucumbers near each other once,

b	Yeah	sd	And we ended up with these, like things on the cantaloupe vines that, I mean, looked like round big huge round cucumbers.

ba	that's really weird.	aa	Yeah,

sd	like you say, they cross pollinate just by bees,	aa	No,

^2	Something weird.	aa	Yeah.

sd	this last season it was too wet up here	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we got half our yield.	b	well.

sd	It was really bad because of the water.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yeah.	aa^m	yeah,

sd	and I'm going to have a seven yard truck come in with some top soil.	b	Uh huh.

sd	my problem is I want to use those rail ties to build up a planter	b	Sure.

sd	but I don't know if the creosote in the rail ties is going to do something, you know, if I want to grow a tomato or something in there	b	Right.

sv	I mean, I guess it'd go with my flowers.	sd	I've seen a lot of people use them, you know, for flower beds,

sd	I always thought I'd put a tomato plant in there or something weird	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I don't know if they make landscape ties that aren't treated.	co	Well, you can get, you can get pressurized lumber,

ar	but they put, some kind of chemicals in there too.	aa	that's right.

sd	so no goi , I'm just not going to put that tomato plant in there.	b	All right.

sd	my flower gardens are always been like on the ground.	b	Right.

sv	it just looks so much better when it's up against the house, tiered up.	sv	Well, you can see it a little better

sd(^q)	and the landlord cut it down and said, Yeah, that's one thing you have to do is keep that lilac bush cut down so it doesn't rub up against the siding	ba@	gee. Yeah.

sd	Anything, as long as it doesn't rub up against the siding.	b^m	Rub up against the siding.

sv	and then the people that do have them, they spread, and they sprout all over their lawn.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And people who do have them, curse.	b	Right.

sd	they aren't trimmed at all.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the locus trees have like three quarters of an inch thorns on it.	aa	Yeah,

sd	So we're going to get a chain saw and limb it extensively so it gets the trees up overhead,	bf	So it'll give you room to get under it,

sd	because I can just see brushing up against it, that it would rip your skin.	b	Yeah.

sv	Many times worse, because of course, it's a tree.	sv	a tree is always something very nice to have.

sd	My husband will have problems borrowing one.	ad	then you got to get him to,

qy^d	you have pets, I understand, a couple of them.	h	I, Well I have, these,

qw	What are they?	sd	well I don't know if they consider themselves animals anymore.

sv	they think they own you .	qh	Don't they really?

sv	you probably don't know po ,	^2	Pogo,

sd	when Beauregard was talking he was the dog, remember.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and he used to say, pets can be most as much trouble as kids, if they work at it a little bit, and even more when they work at it a little bit .	aa	I agree,

sv	And I think that's true,	h	I, don't know,

b	uh huh.	sd	I've got these two cats that hang around with me all day,

ba	Th , co , just good company, that's neat.	sd	and I don't what I'd do without them.

sd	Now we don't actually have a pet right now.	b	okay.

sd	I got it so it wouldn't shed, one of these, French Poodle, a little French Poodle.	ba	my.

sd	and we only had him about three or four weeks before he was hit by a car,	ba	Oh!

sd	but I cannot believe the whole family just, he just got in to us so quickly,	ba	Oh!

sd	I could not believe it.	b	yeah,

sd	I have to tell you about our most interesting pet, though.	b	Okay.

sd	we had an iguana living with us for about, about two and a half years I guess.	qy	by choice?

sd	name was Clyde.	bf	Clyde the iguana.

sv	I think there was one in the school, zoology department, you know, or biology department, one or the other, anyway,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and I said you've got to be kidding, I'm not going to live with a lizard .	ba	Yuck! .

sd	and then they move and about scares you to death sometimes.	qy	Did you have him in a cage?

nn	No,	ba^m	no,

sd^e	he had full run of the house.	ba	no,

sd	He just loved to sit on the back of my dryer where the heat came up out of the dryer, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	when we'd have family home evening and everybody would sit in the living room and the fire would be burning he'd walk across my feet sometimes .	ba	Oh!

sd	He'd come out to the kitchen, just kind of look at me until I went and got him something out of the refrigerator.	ba	no,

sd	and, you know, you could see him just enjoying it like a cat does.	ba	no.

sv	and , kids loved him,	ba	my goodness.

sd	And Dan was a drummer,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he, the only thing he didn't like very well was the drumming.	b^m	Was the drumming.

sv	like he was trying to hi , , protect himself,	bf	And cover his ears.

sd	and then he'd leave the room .	qy^d	Isn't that funny the way we put, you know, human characteristics on an animal like that

sv	well they take on human characteristics like, our other animal,	aa	I guess they do.

sd	and he just brought this Norwegian elkhound an, home	b	Oh.

sd	and he'd pick up his dish and throw it in the air . And then bark and march around, you know,	ba	He used a classic illusion .

sd	and then he'd pick up his dish again and throw it in the air until we came out and gave him some water.	qy	I forgot to ask you, did the iguana catch flies for you?

br	Did what?	qy	Did the iguana catch flies for you?

sd^e	he didn't eat flies.	qy^d^m	He didn't eat flies.

sd^e	they eat greens.	bk	Oh.

sd	and he'd eat the outside leaves.	b	Oh.

sd	and he'd eat outside except you had to keep him away from the garden because he liked to eat the little peas as fast as they came up, you know.	ba	I bet .

sd	he liked that.	qy	Well can we ask you whatever happened to Clyde?

sd^e	when Dan went up to college up at Ricksun , Idaho he took him with him,	bk	Oh.

sd	they found him the next day in a tree,	ba	my.

sd	and he wouldn't lay on it until we changed the covers.	bh	really,

sd^e	he wouldn't lay on it.	bf	because that was like what he was used to.

sd	h , he went to the bathroom in the bathroom.	qw	How did he do that?

sd	well we put some papers on the floor, underneath the john	bk	Okay.

sd	but, but even when he had an accident or something,	ba	no.

sd	and you could just vacuum it up.	ba	my goodness.

sd	And in the summertime when he was outside and eating outside the smell was a little bit like a cat, you know.	b	yeah.

sd	and that's been years ago.	sv	Well see, I guess it's because you lived with, you know, him an, and overcame some fears to get used to him.

sv	But it's, it was interesting.	b	Yeah

qw	Well, what do your cats do besides sitting and purring and letting you pet them .	^h	my goodness, these guys, they, well actually they're my husband's pets.

bf	and you just kind of took them, over,	sd	Well, well actually it's like he's the cat person you know,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And they've kind of taken over

sv	 We , I think,	no	Maybe it is,

am	that could be.	sd	They get real crazy.

ba	pretty ones.	sd	they're both registered, you know,

b^m	Newhart, .	sd	he is something.

b	Yeah,	sd	he just sits on your lap,

qw	what do you think about, the self insurance business?	sd	Well, I watched something on T V a couple of months ago by, ex, Surgeon General Koop.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he talked about Canada's system

sv	and I think eventually the number of people that can afford health insurance, as it is now getting squeezed and squeezed tighter.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think the medical profession is just pushing until there's no option but the government take it over	qy	Do you think that it's just, medical guys?

sd	and, it was ligaments, in her knee, as it turned out,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, he knows knee problems okay,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Now, a, thousand, dollars for thirty five minutes.	ba	great.

sv	and they solved these problems,	b	Yeah .

sv	but there's, no doubt they get kickbacks to fill these machines up night and day.	b	Uh huh .

sd	They don't have to pay them back in three months time.	aa	No.

sd	but there was a, deal where a doctor was going to be sued for malpractice on the death on an infant.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it doesn't make logical sense to me,	aa	No,

sd	In our state right now, recently they've had a lot of, the rapists, murder type, killers going around	ba	gracious.

sd	and they're in there.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	Wisconsin, and Milwaukee area, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	and, I know, in Minnesota, they had, the one that just, got out and went after a, college student and raped, and killed her	b	Oh.

sv	and they are not too happy about that now, I guess,	ba	Well, I can imagine.

sd	and, they get their names in the paper	sd	You wonder about that sometimes.

sd	and they become big celebrities.	b	Uh huh.

qy^g	Well, I know one thin , I think Texas has the death penalty, right?	ny	Yes,

b	Yeah.	qy	Do you have it up there?

nn^r	no.	bk	I see.

sd	but, the person that's caught, he'll never do it again if he gets the death penalty.	b	Yeah.

sv	and there are a lot of repeaters.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, they are really in a crisis.

b	Yeah.	sd	And a lot of them they put out on parole

sv	and when they get back out, they just go into worse crimes.	sv	I think that could be true too.

sv	Maybe they should try and separate them a little bit more.	sv	I think the whole parole thing, you know, if somebody is convicted of second degree murder or something gets fifteen years, well, they are out in six or seven. You know, outbound on the streets again .

b	Yeah.	sv	And to me that's really scary.

sv	If you want to stop the crime, I think you've got to get, the people when they are kids.	b	yeah.

sv	A lot of this probably just starts from the, from the homes. Also from the, the media, the T V s,	b	Uh huh.

sv	all these, gory movies on there becomes, just a natural fact of life.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

sd	well, they probably won't sensor so much the sexual stuff as much as the violent.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm ready if you are.	b	Okay.

sv	Especially if they go hunting,	b	Oh.

sd	he's read books about guns since he was like probably eleven or twelve years old.	b	Uh huh.

sv	As far as just having handguns around to have them, I don't believe that you should have handguns around.	b	Right,

sd	There's too many sports people out there that do do these things.	aa	Right,

am	well I suppose you could.	sv	You know, if you really wanted a gun, you could make one.

sv	And I think if they want one, they're going to get one.	aa	That's true.

sv	like I say, if they want a gun they're going to find out somehow to get one.	b	Uh huh.

sd	in fact I had bought my son a rifle like for a Christmas present one time.	b	Uh huh.

h	Now there might be now.	b	Yeah.

sd	But there wasn't anything for, you know, rifles and things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess it was just handguns that there was a, some kind of a waiting, you know, two weeks while they checked you out or something.	b	Sure.

sv	But, most of these people that's got these guns that's going around, you know, robbing people and shooting people,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I mean they have anything you'd want,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, you know, anywhere from rifles and semiautomatic weapons and I mean, there's nothing.

sd	and I was just wondering how that did work, if somebody wanted to buy a gun at a gun show.	b	yeah,

qy^g	You don't have to wait or nothing then	nn	No.

sd	I was just curious, you know, because,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I know at the regular you know, gun shop that you, that you do have to wait for pistols, like a couple of weeks	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you go pick it up.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think there is something like that.	b	Uh huh

sv	Anyhow, out here in California, I think there is now.	b	Yeah.

sd	Now we don't have guns because we don't go hunting or anything like that.	b	No.

sd	like, I think his first little rifle that we got him was like he twelve or thirteen years old.	b	Uh huh.

sd	He likes to go to that, shotgun thing where you shoot at those,	b	yeah.

sd	He likes to do that you know .	b	Uh huh.

h	But, I don't know.	b	Yeah.

sv	But as far as just banning it completely, that's not going to happen.	aa	yeah, I, I don't think it can happen either.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I don't see,

aa^r	right.	sv	And so, you know, they would just,

sd	Now I do believe though, like in California, if a little kid gets a hold of a gun that someone has I think they're liable now for,	b	Yeah.

sd	they can be, you know, put in jail and everything. whoever owned the gun.	b	th , Oh , yeah,

sv	You know, now when they have kids around, you'd think that they would be locking them up	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, she said that, that, you know, he used to always keep his guns locked up and everything like that

^2	Well they can get into almost anything anymore .	aa	Right.

qy	do you think we're paying too much?	no	Yes and no.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, being a rec vehicle owner,

b	Yeah.	sd	They add it on to tires and gasoline, cigarettes, liquor.

b	Yeah.	sv	it's attacking just certain people.

aa	How true.	sv	Even with the gasoline tax.

sv	that's not what I would consider a luxury.	b	No.

b	Yeah.	qo	What are your feelings on it?

sv	so we can't really do a whole lot about how that money is spent and where it goes	aa	Yeah.

sv	But not really.	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sv	So, I mean, you can't believe what you hear.

sv	and, you know, they're studying some obscure bug, you know, in some other part of the world or some such thing,	b	Oh.

sv	and I think that's wrong.	aa	I agree

aa	That's right.	sv	They're still people starving people here / * They're > There're

sv	And I think here lately they've been saying quite often and maybe somebody's coming to realize we're the nation in trouble.	aa	Absolutely.

b	Uh huh.	sv	so many billions of dollars here and there and everything

sv	And I think that's a mistake.	aa	definitely.

sv	Somewhere, you know, we have to realize that we can't just keep giving it away.	sv	Well, another thing now they keep decontrolling different things.

sv	We know what trouble they got into .	aa	Exactly.

b	Yeah.	sv	Prices went sky high.

sv	but you will at least double that amount	bf	by the time you get through with the, the penalties.

sv	but they really stick it to you big time.	aa	I agree.

aa	Absolutely.	sv	the, typical bureaucratic, I guess. that's one of my pet peeves.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Very simple.

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, you think about it now,

sv	That's a lot.	aa	It sure is.

sv	I don't have any idea.	sd	Well, I remember,

b	Yeah.	sv	But, government is ridiculous.

ba	Wow.	ad	Just think of the money they could save.

b	Yeah.	qh	Why not get the work out of the people.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, well, anyway that would, of course, eventually come back to taxes.

sv	So, the real amount of your savings on that is, not much.	aa	very true.

sv	You know, it's kind of a vicious circle there.	sv	And then they tell you to, well, invest it in, is it I R A s or something

sv	And then, at a took that away as far as being,	sv	and the tax is a lot less.

b	Yeah.	sv	But in the mean time you've got your money tide up in a relatively low interest bearing investment.

b	Huh uh.	sv	me I'm a firm believer in that if you got it spend it.

ad	Well, you can come over to my house and spend it .	qy	Well, you, well, do you need some help spending yours?

sd^e	I just don't have any.	bk	uh huh.

sv^t	Well, I guess we probably talked just about long enough.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	co	let me ask you something.

ny	Yes.	qy^d	You did?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	everybody I've talked to has received one

h	I don't know.	fc	well, anyway Ellen, it was nice talking to you.

fc	You too.	fc	And, until next time.

fc	Okay.	fc	Bye bye.

qo	Well what do you think about the everyday occurrences that are an invasion of your privacy?	sd	what I don't like is the constant calls, people selling things people telling me I want things. You know, people trying to solicit for different, you know, organizations.

b	Right.	sd	You know, that's what I really.

sd	I mean, my wife and I, seems like we get home at five thirty and the damn phone starts ringing and rings up until ten, eleven o'clock sometimes.	^2	Never stops ringing,

sv	that's true.	sv	I mean, this is one of the best inventions ever, you know,

sv	that's true.	b	Yeah.

sd	and a lot of days I'll get two and three calls, from from people selling insurance you know, to the small business man	qy^d	even in an office?

sd	and, California, always trying to sell something, oil investments or stock investments or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And now I'm getting the same calls at the house.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and, credit card companies, they sell your name.	b	yeah,

aa	I know. Yes.	sv	that's also an invasion of privacy.

sd	American Express does that, by the way.	qy^d	they do?

sd^e	I understand they you know, they sell names because it's quite profitable to them.	sv	Well, sure it is.

sv	you're right.	aa	That's right.

sv	that's true.	sv	I mean, one magazine, and boom, they got your name forever.

sd	magazine companies, from subscriptions do the same thing	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's the way they make additional money.	sv	That's right.

sv	so your name is valuable to, I guess, X amount of solicitors calling.	aa	Yeah,

qw	what do you, where are you from?	sd	I'm from Texas.

sd	we live in the Dallas area, Richardson.	sd	we're in Plano.

bk	Okay .	sd	Well, you know, the only call I really got that, well, was out of state,

bh	Did you?	sd	And that was, California,

sd	I've talked to people in Utah, people in New York	b	really.

sd	and I'll get people you know, from out of the state.	b	Oh.

sv	Not from Texas.	sd	originally from New Jersey.

bk	right.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	My wife's from New Jersey.	b	really,

sd	from, Saddle River.	sv	that's nice over there.

b	Okay.	sd	we're like,

sv	Well, that's nice, too.	aa	Yeah,

sv	so she's been away for quite a while.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so they just they over there in New Jersey.	b	Yeah,

sd	but that's the biggest one I can think of is just all the solicitors calling.	b	Well, yeah,

aa	I know.	sd(^q)	you know, I said, this is absurd,

sd	I might start using the answering machine more, because it's so hard to not pick up that phone when it rings.	sv	it's great,

b	Right.	sd(^q)	and I'll get that message that says, to, you know, end this call, press three

b	Sure.	sd	and I assumed you know, it was from the switchboard.

sv	you're probably right.	b	Yeah

sv	it's hard to believe there's that many deputy sheriffs associations	sd	and, you know, the policeman's associations.

sd	they call you one time to send three kids to the car , carnival or circus	sd	I used to do that.

ad	I'll let you go first.	sd	Well I think, I don't know how your schools work back there

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the land owners or home owners are the ones that pay the school tax.

sd	I spent a couple, years down in, Plano, Texas.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I was one of the home owners down there that got taxed to death, for the, Plano, school system.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, you know, I know that Texas doesn't have a state tax,	aa	No,

sd	and so all the things come out of the property taxes,	b	Yeah.

sd	I was better off paying a state tax back in Maryland, where, ,	aa	Yeah,

sd	what they did in Maryland to get around that is they developed a renters tax solely for the purpose of paying for the services, that the renters were getting including the, educational services.	b	Oh.

sd	so when, long, long time ago, when I used to live in apartments, I would pay a rent payment every month and a tax payment every month.	b	Oh.

sd	And the tax payment went to pay for the services that I was getting as a resident of that particular county.	b	Yeah.

sd	Here in Maryland a certain portion of your property taxes, goes to education,	b	Yeah.

sd	but also a portion of the state tax that you pay goes back into the county that you live in, to pay for the educational system.	ba	well that's pretty good.

sd	like Collin County, would only equal about maybe an eighth the size of Baltimore County, here in Maryland.	b	yeah.

sd	I mean the counties are much larger.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, in the whole state of Maryland I believe there's only like, fifteen counties.	ba	Gee whiz.

qy	the flip side to this is, are we getting what we're paying for,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I heard a report because, of, the emphasis that the President was putting on education, you know, him running as our education president and then finally a couple of years later getting around to doing something.	b	Uh huh.

sd	in other words, they came up with this federalized system where everyone in the third grade would be taught basically the same thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	and everybody in the fourth grade's basically taught the same thing.	b	Yeah.

sd	and since it's inception, they've, the prices paid by the federal government per student has been thirty three percent.	ba	Yow.

sd	and that's real dollars, you know, adjusting it back to the days, you know, when it started, probably, you know, seventy years ago.	b	Yeah.

sd	And what they've said is that we haven't had a thirty three percent improvement in education.	b	No,

sd	We've actually gone backwards.	sd	Well they say that Texas schools are some of the lowest in the nation.

b	Yeah.	sv	So, you know, our school system down here is no where near perfect

sd	well, they've been having some problems, even here in, like Baltimore City which is, a, goo , good sized city.	b	Yeah.

sd	and of course they've, been cutting the teachers salaries, because they say we don't have the money to do it	b	yeah.

sd	and, all the services are costing more money and everything,	b	Yeah.

sv	but a lot of emphas , now is being put on, you know, when children used to be taught, you know, like, each child is individual,	b	Yeah.

sv	and some students do horrible until like eighth grade,	b	Yeah,

sv	some do horrible, you know, until they get to like tenth grade,	b	Yeah.

sv	And then there are some students that, you know, read well at five years old, and, you know, seem to excel.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so the, you know, one of the things I heard proposed on, one of the public radio stations up here was that we should go back to teaching children at their own speed. Some ki ,	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	they can't keep force feeding things to each other and, or, you know, at the kids.

sv	and, and on top of that they make the child feel inferior, because he's not as good as another kid his same age.	b	Uh huh,

sv	I mean, like, you know, that's ridiculous.	sv	And it's not that he can't do it,

sd	and, you know, I, I have five children total,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I have two that are in, eighth grade this year.	b	All right.

sd	when they were in elementary school they were identified as being slow.	b	Yeah.

sd	they're a set of twins, a boy and a girl.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Last year the, boy twin started doing real well.	b	All right.

sd	and this year it happened for the daughter.	b	all right.

sd	She just has been, really doing great this year	^2	Jumped on out there.

sd	and she has the right attitude towards school and everything.	ba	That's good.

sd	I remember when I was in school, I did horrible up until about, yeah, about the seventh, eighth grade	b	Yeah,

sd	and basically I got interested in math, and, never really did well in english	b	Yeah.

sv	but, you know once you got interested in something and things started to click in place then after that you take off.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we didn't have all that fancy stuff to worry about, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	but they don't have it anymore.

sd	but. they really stress academics there.	nn	No.

sd	And, God, if your child is not an honor student, well then, you're, something wrong with you as a parent.	ba	Gee.

sd	And that's kind of the way they are there.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, when we moved back to Maryland, I moved to a, Baltimore County which is a northern county in Maryland,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's basically a rural county, once you get above about the half way point.	b	Yeah.

sd	we went from a, middle school in Texas that served fifty five square blocks to a, middle school in Maryland that served fifty five square miles.	b	Yeah.

sv	And it was just a complete culture shock, because I mean, they're riding on the bus in the morning with, other kids that, you know, are a sleep because they got up at three o'clock and were doing chores	ba	I can imagine.

sd	but it's, agricultural.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And where they had to raise a small animal.	bf	like, Four H then.

sd	Had to learn how to drive a tractor.	b	All right.

sd	They loved it.	b	All right.

sv	and you know, it made school fun for them again because prior to that school was just a big pain, a drain.	b	Yeah,

sv	It was like, kind of like the way we feel about going to work .	b	Yeah,

sv	and they seem to really enjoy it.	ba	That's good,

qw	what kind of fishing do you enjoy?	sd	Well, normally I like to go out fishing in a boat, rather than like bank fishing, just like to try and catch anything that's swimming, because I've had such problems with trying to catch any type of fish, that, I just really enjoy doing the boat type fishing.

qy^d	So, you like fresh water.	ny	Uh huh.

b	I see .	sd	Well, one of these days, I'm hoping they'll have some kind of medicine,

sd	Well, I was raised on the Texas gulf coast, in the summers,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and during the Christmas holidays we'd go down to our house on the coast	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so, I thought fish came out of the ocean	ba	my goodness.

sd	and anything that was fresh water was muddy	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I didn't learn to fish in a lake until I was well into my twenties	ba@	Wow. Uh huh.

sd	so I had always been a sea fisher type which is a lot of fun.	b^r	Uh huh.

sv	There's so many different ways to catch fish.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's a lot of fun.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, I grew up fishing.	b^r	Uh huh.

qw	What area of lakes do you like?	^h	Well, now, I haven't done much fishing here in Texas, because I moved from Ohio,

b	I see.	sd	but, we did a lot of fishing when we were up there.

sv	I think I know where, Lake Caddo, or something like that.	aa	that may be it.

sd	If it's supposed to be one of the best bass fishing places. They hold tournaments there, and everything.	b	Yeah.

sd	I really don't want to share a boat with a snake.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I, I don't see it.	b	Yeah.

sd	I'd make some quick arrangements	aa	That's true.

sd	and I've told so many stories about the snakes	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, when they pull in, there's a snake instead of a fish, and things like that	b	Yeah.

h	I don't know,	b	Yeah.

qw	What's the largest fish you ever caught?	fe	gosh,

sv*	On a like that's not a bad size fish. / * listen; transcript should probably read "lake" not "like"	aa	yeah,

sd	I would be impressed .	b	Yeah,

sd	I've never done that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and there's just so many other ways live down there.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's not a treat	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's what you do every day.	aa	That's right.

sd	one of my favorite things was, we were forever catching crab and steaming them you know, out on the beach and you know, just, pitching them out, on, what am I trying to say, newspaper and, breaking them up and sitting out there and eating them, and then digging a hole and pitching the whole thing in it you know	b	Yeah.

sd	and that's it.	b	Yeah.

sd	but, the other little creatures would take care of what was left.	aa	That's right,

sd	So, going out on a boat, never did appeal to me simply because you know, there was so much else to do.	aa^r	that's right.

sd	I lived in Dallas.	bk	okay.

sd	We had a house in Port Aransas.	b	okay.

sd	It's a little fishing village that is, Corpus.	^2	That's close to, South Padre.

ar	Well, South Padre is on down the bend	b^m	Corpus.

sd	it's like if you drew a line from Austin straight down, it would be in that region.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Small island.	b	Yeah.

b	okay.	b	Yes,

qy	Was it bad?	sd	I well never, ever go back.

ba	I hate to hear that.	aa	yeah,

b	Huh uh.	b^m	huh uh,

aa^r	no.	b	Yeah.

sd	I have a favorite hotel that extends out over the water	b	Uh huh.

qy	what is it, the Flagship?	ny	Yes.

qy	Is it still there?	na	It sure is.

sd	I like that place.	b	Yeah.

sd	I didn't realize that had happened, for some reason.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, of course, being raised on the water I'd never swim in it.	b	yeah.

aa	Huh uh.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	Swimming is for swimming, pool.	b^r	Yeah.

sv	That's why they call them swimming pools .	b	Uh huh.

sv	You do not swim in the ocean.	aa	No.

aa^m	No.	sd	Not anymore.

sd	but huge sharks are down there.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean incredibly large sharks.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	some of the young dread naughty boys in my family would fish for them all night	b	Uh huh.

sd	it was incredible the size of them,	ba	Wow.

sd	the next morning they would have them strung up across the getties	b	Uh huh.

sd	their tails would still hang on the bottom of the getties	ba	Wow.

sd	I won't have anything to do with.	b	Yeah.

qy	have you had very many of these calls?	ny	yeah,

ba	How wonderful.	aa	Yeah.

fc	I enjoyed talking to you.	fc	Okay.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye bye .

sv	I think we're supposed to discuss our view of the Soviet Union as a continuing threat to the United States.	b	Okay.

qo	How do you feel about that.	sd	I don't know about the government as much as,

sd	They're very large	b	Yeah.

sv	and they can become very quickly a large financial burden, as one more stepchild we have to carry around.	aa^r	Yeah,

sd	but they had a crop that rotted in the fields because they couldn't get anyone to harvest it.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	And the people in the city were saying, well why should I go do that. Make the government do that, that's not my job.	b	Right,

fc	I've enjoyed talking to you.	b	Okay.

fc	bye,	fc	All right,

qy^d	and, probably the first question would be whether you've ever had to go through that process.	ng	Well, not so much personally

b	Uh huh.	sd	She appeared to have a couple of light strokes and started to, not be able to be in her apartment on her own.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	So they found a place nearby that they put her in last year.

qy^d	So it was pretty much a physical decision?	ny	yeah,

qrr	or was she kind of opposed to it?	ny	Well, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she got kind of fearful of being on her own.

b	Yeah.	sd	and she didn't eat.

sd	and so often they think they're adequately caring for themselves when they're really not eating or very balanced meals.	sd	Well, she was almost ridiculous.

sd	It really is.	bh	really?

ny	Uh huh.	sd	Well she didn't want to cook for herself anymore.

b	Yeah.	^q	that's too much trouble.

sd	I do that right now,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I'm not near nursing home age.	sd	Although they've got, Meals On Wheels, Which I understand is a really good, you know, way to handle that so that at least they eat.

qrr^d	or probably in College Station there wasn't a whole lot of choice.	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	she was ambulatory

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I remember from her checking around, she ended up staying at the Arkansas House I think out in Arlington, something like that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, you know the type of facilities whether it's a shared room or two separate rooms that share a, bathroom. All of them all seem to say that people there are going to steal their items .

sv	That's a given.	sd	They're always saying that somebody's going to,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, at least they all seem to have, you know, people that monitor their, medication intake and dining facilities, you know, go to the dining room and eat some good meals.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I know when my friend's mother in law first went in, I mean, very antisocial.

bf	Adapt.	aa	Yeah,

sv	but the places like Presbyterian Village and some of the retirement places where they have different levels of care seems to be so much better, as far as elderly people adapting.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They're able to move in while they're still independent and still social	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's really kind of difficult.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	it seems like the women just out live their husbands, but, very reluctantly,

b	Uh huh.	sv	they don't get out of the house,

sd	And that scares me the thought of forcing somebody to do something.	sv	But it's so lonely,

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	because I think, what do you have there?

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's walls

bf	Not as independence.	qh	Don't you want to be close to me? . I mean, you know be with other people.

b	Yeah.	sd	I just don't understand why they, so much want to just stay in that building.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	And there's no family there,

sv	And the quality of life really isn't there.	b	Yeah.

ba	it really is.	sd	That's from the child's standpoint.

b	Uh huh.	^q	What does that house got attraction?

sv	Well, they fear being dependent on somebody.	sd	I know they're really proud of independence.

sd	She can't accept that we want to be the care givers.	qw	Well, when she got home, who took care of her?

sd	Well, she stayed in a temporary nursing home. Until she was okay.	bk	Oh.

sd	She's down in Temple	b	Uh huh.

sv	and we're all heading that way	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we thought maybe we could get them to move a little closer here.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And they really don't have an excess of catchers

b	Yeah.	sd	They're not the highest paying ball team around.

qy^g	they're not, are they.	sd	But you know, I would, I would gladly take the salary of most of the guys, I'll tell you.

sd	even the bench warmer, I would.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'll have to admit I kind of went more to see the other team a lot of times than I did the Rangers,

b	yeah.	sv	But, I think they're doing better.

sd	and we go quite often, to watch the Rangers.	b	Yeah,

sd	we're heavy into that too.	sv	I think it's more fun to play than it is to watch.

aa	I do too.	b	Yeah.

sv	And I think, what caught so many of our attentions last year was that Nolan Ryan, you know,	aa	of course,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he pitched yeah, five full innings.

b	uh huh.	o	no big deal, you know,

sv	I know it,	sv	He's something else,

sv	as far as predictions and stuff, I really think the Rangers may come out real strong this year.	sv	They could do very well,

sd	but last year I just figured they was under a lot of pressure because of all the publicity and everything,	b	Uh huh,

sd	I really do.	b	Yeah,

sv	at least, that should help,	sv	So that should help.

sv	it sure should.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and of course, there's a few more, you know, I think are good ball teams also.	aa	Oh yeah,

"	I really do.	b	Sure,

sd	I like to go watch the Giants when they come to Houston some times.	b	Uh huh,

bh	you haven't?	nn	Huh uh.

sd	I have a few times.	b	Uh huh.

sv	they're a good ball team.	aa	That's right.

sv	They really are.	aa	They sure are.

qh	wouldn't it though .	fe	Boy,

qh^m	Wouldn't it.	sv	It sure would.

qy^g	we might actually get to go to a World Series,	na	That's right,

ny	yeah.	sv	It sure would.

sv	That's something you dream about.	aa	Absolutely.

sv	but, last year I was kind of thinking he sure did get in a slump.	b	Yeah.

sd	But they're saying this year, their predictions is that he's really going to come out of it and, be on top.	b	Uh huh,

qh	Isn't he though,	sv	He really is gosh.

sd	He either hits home run or strike out.	aa	Uh huh,

sd	There is not ever a in between for him.	aa	That's right,

b	yeah.	b	Yeah,

sd^m	To sign him again,	b	Yeah,

sv	you never know.	aa	That's right,

sv	if you offer them money, I'm sure they'll, they'll do a little bit of everything.	aa	That's right.

aa^r	no,	aa	Yeah,

no	I hadn't heard.	sd	I haven't either,

sd	I really haven't,	sd	those Cowboys have increased their prices again this year.

b	Oh yeah.	sd	But I didn't know,

sd	Well I hadn't either,	b	Yeah.

sv	I don't even guess they've even thought about sending the schedules out yet.	b	Yeah,

sd	We usually order our tickets way in advance.	b	Uh huh,

sd	we try to go so often.	b	Uh huh,

aa	they do.	b	Uh huh.

fc	Well, I've enjoyed talking to you.	fc	Well you too Lori .

fc	And, hopefully we'll get to talk again.	b	Right,

fc	bye bye.	b	Okay,

qy	Well, how about you, are you an exercise fanatic?	nn	No.

sd	Me either .	sd	I'm definitely ,

qy	Do you?	ny	Yes.

ba	Wonderful. Uh huh.	sv	It was so funny the other day,

o*	Way. / * what is this?	sd(^q)	and I said "you can walk off your lunch."

sv	That's the way to do it.	aa	Yeah.

sd	it's just a chore, you know,	b	 Oh.

sv	and that will get me where I'll have to do it, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they were offering a walking class, where you know, you have to walk, you know, like for every mile you walk and every so many minutes, you get points, you know,	b	 

sd	and, at the end of the semester you go back in and like your final exam is a three mile walk.	b	Oh.

sd	this many minutes you get a B,	b	Uh huh.

sd	like about the middle of the semester I ended up having to have surgery on my foot,	b	no.

sd	and this has been a couple of years ago,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I just ended up having to drop the class.	b	Oh.

sd	you know, by the time the final came around, I wasn't even where I could wear a shoe yet, let alone walk three miles, you know.	b	no.

sd	But, that was the only time I have ever been able to like start an exercise program and really stick to it, because then I had to go every week and log in what I had walked,	b	 Right.

sd	and, my teacher looked at it every week, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, other than that you know, I kind of get in the mood every once in awhile, say, okay, I'm going to start going to aerobics now, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	and, I'll go for like two weeks and go, this is for the birds, this is too much work.	sd	Well, you know, I have noticed too that, when I started not the exercise but the walking program, that I did tone up, you know, like all over,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but it didn't get the upper part of my body,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, what I do, is I bowl.

ba	Wow.	sv	so, I really loved it,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I still bowl at least once a week now, on a league, on a,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I've noticed that what I do is that I have my towel that sits on the floor, so that every time I get up to bowl, I have to bend over to pick up my towel

b	Uh huh.	sd	I'm always explaining to people, I do little things like that, like, you know, take the stairs instead of the elevator,

b	Yeah.	sv	and, I do silly things like that versus a regular program that you would have.

sv	you're amazed at how much that adds up.	aa	It sure does.

sd	I was on, Nutri Systems for a while,	b	Uh huh.

sd	when you come to your Nutri System meeting, don't park in the parking place outside the front door, park at the other end, you know,	b	Yeah

sv	You know, when you're sitting watching T V at night, during every commercial get up off the couch, go to the living room and get a glass of water, go to the bedroom and make the bed, go do something, but get up during every commercial. And, things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, you'd be surprised at how much just that little bit adds up, you know, just gives you a little more activity	aa	That's true.

sv	especially when you're like us and don't really want to do it anyway.	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	and then I would do them like two times a day,

sv	I'm more into, you know, sitting, than I am ,	aa	Yeah,

sd	I have a two year old,	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	and I have found really though, I'm kind of the opposite, I'm more active now with him, than I was before, because now, you know, he'll "I want to go outside" and I'll go outside with him	b	Yeah.

h	I don't know.	b	Yeah,

sv	Just chasing him around the house, you know, will be plenty for you.	^2	that's enough.

sv	You've kind of gotten out of that little stage there.	b	yes.

ba	lucky you,	b	Yes.

sv	you're getting into even more interesting stages.	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah	b	Yeah,

sv	Same thing, the terrible twos repeat at about thirteen .	aa	It does,

sv	How interesting, I can hardly wait .	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, you know, that I'm need to do this, that and the other

sv	that walkabout's a good program.	aa	It is,

sd	and we did do it for a long time,	b	Yeah.

sd	so I had to pick Ryan up, you know,	b	yeah.

sv	there's always an excuse, you know, to not do it	b	yeah.

aa^r	I'm sure.	b	Yeah,

^2	to the mall, to the movies, to the friends, to the,	aa	There you go,

sv	Sounds like fun.	fc	Well, it was nice talking to you.

fc	Well, it was really good to talk to you.	fc	Yeah,

fc	talk to you later.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	I haven't given this matter enough thought.	qy	Do you work for T I?

nn	No,	bk	Oh.

sd	I work for N I S T .	bk	okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It used to just be for new employees.

b^m	And now,	sd	They, randomly select employee numbers

qo	and how do people feel about it?	sd	So, we're familiar with it.

sv	that's a very different issue.	b	Well, yeah,

qy	does the testing cover alcohol as well as illegal drugs?	nn	No,

qy	So they ask you to declare beforehand what prescription drugs you are taking?	na	Right.

sd	but they don't say in advance ,	sv	Well, what they be testing for are the ones that would have like, you know, barbiturates or codeine things like that in them.

bf	The ones that would kind of constitute controlled substances or something anyway .	aa	Right,

bf	So what they are asking you to tell them is all the prescription drugs you are taking which are controlled substances.	aa	Right,

qy	Is Contact a, Bo ,	sd	you probably put down, you know, you had Drixoral or Contact if you would remember that you did it.

qy	Is Contact a, substance?	nn	No.

b	Okay.	sv	But if they had a controlled substance, maybe they would ask you then to show that you had that prescription in your name.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they test them too even if you are not a real, T I er.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he had taken some kind of, you know,

qo	how do you feel about them?	sd	Well, I keep trying to get away from them,

b	Yeah.	qo	What about you?

sd	as soon as we get our bills, we pay it off.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We tore all the rest of them up.	b	, okay.

sd	if you're on a trip or something, you don't have to take a whole bunch of, you know, cash with you,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I don't like using them because I've seen too many people that used them and ended up bankrupt or on, chapter thirteen and stuff like that.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Because they have this weird opinion that if you use that card, you don't have to pay for it.	aa	That's true

sv	and it seems like ...	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	But that's probably paying for things that were still owed from last time, .

qy	Are you married?	ny	Yes.

sd	I mean, that was her goal, you know, got to have a credit card,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but she wanted to establish some credit,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	You know, and I'm thinking woman, , wake up and smell the roses before they come and get you.	b	Right.

sd	and people don't see that either.	b	Yeah,

sd	The only one that we have that we kept was the Discover card,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it pays you to use it. I mean, if you pay your bill off right away, if you don't ever have to pay any interest on it because they give you a certain amount every time that you use it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, you have to pay the interest, not pay it right off,	b	Uh huh.

sd	plus they don't have that, charge on it, you know,	br	Service charge you mean?

ny	Yeah.	bf	Yearly fee,

sd	we could have credit cards running down our ears.	sd	you get that stuff in the mail all the time.

sv	I just can't see it.	sd	What I really hate in the mail is like for the credit cards that I do have still, that they send you these things that look like checks,

b	Yeah.	sd	and they say, hey, you know, two thousand dollars, you know, free to you kind of thing, you know,

sd	I know it,	sd	I can't believe they have the nerve to do that.

sd	she's in college,	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, somebody sent them something free.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's some weird name of a credit card,	b	Uh huh.

^q	That's how you got on to it to start with, you know, what is the matter with this person, .	b	Yeah.

h	But, that's just the way I feel about it.	b	Yeah,

b	, yeah.	sv	But we're not into that.

sd	but I don't know why I didn't.	sv	Well, we're geared to that.

b	, uh huh.	sd(^q)	people go, well, I'll just go put it on credit and they'll pay it off.

b	, yeah.	sv	People aren't tuned in to like saving for it and then buying it,

qy^g	I mean, you didn't go out and charge a whole bunch and lose everything, did you?	nn	, no,

^g	right?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	That's, a lot of money that you went to buy this item.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And then you never feel like you've got anything to put into savings or anything,

fp	Hello.	fp	Yes,

qw	What's going on?	sd	Well, just go ahead and talk,

qy	Are you sure?	ny	Yeah.

qy^t	Don't they usually tell you to say something?	ng	I don't think so.

b	Oh.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we're supposed to talk about lawn and garden.	aa	Yes,

qy	What do I do?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I cut it occasionally.	b	Good.

qy	is that good?	na	That's better.

sd	And I edge it occasionally.	ba	that's really good.

qh	see, am I good, or what?	b	Yeah.

sd	And, much beyond that I don't do .	sd	I don't do any of that.

qy^d	he is going to build you a fence.	no	Well, he's giving me an estimate.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And for ten dollars a week, I don't see any reason for me to be doing it.

br	What, for a fence?	o@	No, for my yard. * needs slash unit Yeah,

qy	well, I thought, isn't he the same one?	sd	he is.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

sd	I don't know.	sv	It's like next to nothing.

b	Yeah.	sd	But if there's five weeks, I still pay forty.

ad	but you know, you ought to get him to pull the weeds.	sd	Well, he won't pull weeds.

b	Oh.	sd	he won't cut them is what he won't do. Because he said with the rocks that it's too dangerous for him to take the trimmer over the rocks

b	Uh huh.	sv	and he's right.

b	Yeah.	sv	That's true.

qy^d	so you haven't pulled any weeds lately?	nn	No.

b	Yeah.	sd	I started to pull the weeds in the rocks out front

b	Uh huh.	sd	and all of a sudden I came cross this big clump of weeds

ba	goody.	sd	and I threw the gloves in the trash bag that was out there

sd	I thought you were going to say there I thought you were going to say there was a snake in the weeds .	sd	I would rather a snake,

ba	God, .	sd	I just left the whole thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	I haven't gone back over there.

qy	Did they die or what?	ny	yeah,

qy	are they going to come back in the spring?	no	I don't know.

b	Oh.	sd^r	I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I thought they were supposed to live through all the cold weather.

b	Yeah.	sv	They looked real pretty until about a week before Christmas,

b	Oh.	sv	So, I don't think any of it comes back

b	Yeah.	sv	maybe these,

qy	Those flowers, remember those little ones you gave me?	ny	Yeah.

sd	well, I know they were still blooming up until about a few weeks ago.	bh	Really?

ny	Yeah.	ba	Well, that's good.

sv	they, They're really pretty.	sv	they're like indestructible.

b	Yeah	sv	We'll see.

qy^t	I mean isn't it supposed to be five minutes?	sd	But that's because we didn't hit one for a long time.

qy^g	We didn't disconnect, did we ?	sv	I hope not .

sd	Boy, I hate to think I hate to think I'd be talking to you without getting paid .	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	where was the person last night was from far away.

bh	Really?	sd	And we get each other down the street.

sd	and that was it.	b	Yeah,

bh	Really?	sd	I can't remember,

bh	really ?	sd	And I don't remember what the place was last night,

b	Yeah.	sd	but I'm not sure

h	I don't know,	sd	But mostly they're from the area.

sv	Well, there isn't really much to talk about as far as lawn and garden goes.	aa	Not for me.

sd^m	Not for me either.	sd	You know, not not for me because all I have is rocks and weeds.

sd	and that's about it.	sd	I know.

qw	What do I do with it?	sd	I know,

qy	are they going to tell us to stop or what ?	no	I don't know,

qy	Isn't it five minutes?	no	I don't know.

sd	I mean, I'm all talked out about gardens.	sd	I know.

qy^d	it's just suggested?	qo	So, how's the baby, do you think ?

br	What?	qw	How's the,

co	We could talk, Let's talk about the baby.	ad	Let's talk about the baby.

o	Okay,	ad	Let's talk about the Middle East situation.

qy^d	The U S involvement in there, then I guess even though.	sd	Now it's all over with, you know.

h	I don't know.	sd^m	I don't know

sv	I think that's true because of all the support that came through.	aa	That's right.

sd	and of course on the news I try to listen and also read between the lines you know .	b	Uh huh.

sd	like so much of the business and the rebuilding in Kuwait and things like that will go to American businesses where as before they may be dealt with Japanese firms or other people.	b	Uh huh.

sv	like the first priority ought to go to American businesses, you know which will be good for our economy.	b	Right,

sv	I mean we don't seem to slow down even when there is a crisis .	aa	No,

sv	Your oil companies, they may see, probably the first big rise in business they have seen in years.	b	Right.

aa	Uh huh.	sv	I think it's such a shame that the Iraqis had to just go destroy everything.

aa	I do too.	qh	I mean, what good is that?

^q	I want what everybody has.	aa	That's right.

sv	it's like you see two little pre school kids fighting over a toy, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I know they are putting President Bush right now in an awkward position concerning the, The treaty over there right now.	^2	The, The deal with the supporting the Kurds.

sd	but, you know the cease fire,	b	Right,

sd	I'm trying to say another, because he yeah. You know because he wants them to uphold their end of the deal as far as the cease fire	b	Right.

sv(^q)@	but at the same time, he's not wanting to go in and say, Okay, I'm going to fight your war for you, which I think is right. / * should be 2 slash units, with final clause getting sv code	b	Right.

sv	we're not the judge and jury.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	but I know that that's causing him a little bit of unpopularity with the people over there because they feel like, Gee, you told us, to stand up against him, but you're not helping.	b	Yeah,

sv	and I think we ought to help, you know.	bf	Maybe supply some arms or something.

sv	and, so I think he's done good on that stance.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	and Saddam Hussein miscalculated all along, thinking that he wouldn't commit U S lives and forces and monies just to liberate a little country.

aa	That's right.	sv	And, then he underestimated his ability to wage a war with us.

b^r	yeah.	sv	And that was a horrible miscalculation.

sd	Well, he may have	sd	Not any more .

sv	you have to have people who believe in your cause.	b	Right.

sd	You know, I know they tried to turn it into a holy war, because to them that is what's honorable. You know, if you die in a holy cause,	b	Right.

sv	but I think they are smart enough, to see there's nothing holy about it.	b	Yeah.

sv	We just want to go in and took it.	b	Right.

b	Sure.	sv	and I think the people were smart enough to realize that,

sd	Well, I hope that's true.	sv	Someone is going to assassinate him, you know.

sv	I guess in the back of my mind I think like maybe the Israeli Massad probably has ideas of going in and,	b	Yeah,

sv	You know, I thought they, showed a tremendous restraint in their reactions towards everything,	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I don't believe for a minute that that means that they don't have ideas and plans of their own .	aa	That's right.

sd	But I do agree with you,	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think, that's how you have to go into something like that.	b	Right,

o*	And don't you feel? /* listen	sd	And you just can't do it and get away with it, you know, hoping that you know,

b	That's right.	sv	because it's a world thing

qy	And don't you think that long term that's been a big boost for the United Nations.	ny	yeah.

sd	I mean the United Nations been there for years, but all of a sudden.	bf	had no teeth.

sv	and the fact that when they have sanctions and we support things like this, it means something.	b	Right.

sv	And I think that's good for the strength of the United Nations.	sd	I guess, I feel sorry for just the average, you know, Iraqi, who has had to go through all of this and the suffering. I'm sure with no water, No electricity, no sanitation,

b	Yes.	sv	living conditions must be terrible.

b	Yeah.	sv	and it's not getting any better,

aa	That's true.	sd	You know, except for a few medical supplies they are allowing through now and then powdered milk, I guess, for babies and things

sd	They supported it.	sd(^q)	and the Kuwaitis said, We don't want to have to repay Israel for all the bombing that we did that was in there, you know.

sd	That is right,	sv	But that's only fair.

sd	they did ask that they build up Israel and Kuwait.	b	Yeah.

sv	And I think they should have to.	b	Yeah.

sd	They lost .	sv	It's going to be really tough for them to swallow,

aa	Well, that's true.	sv(^q)	And we don't want, you know, to be stabilized to the point where Iran will say, Now is our chance, you know, to go in and wipe them out

sv	Well I don't think Iran is under the same type of madman type leadership,	b	Yeah,

h	but there's always the possibility, I guess.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think so.	sv	Not quite as radical a stance, more moderates are in power now.

sv	I think the person who really may be at this time has a hard road to tow is Jordan's King Hussein because he really kind of, really tried to kind of straddle the fence.	b	Yeah.

sv	but at the same time, he didn't feel like everybody ought to be going against Iraq.	sv	And yet so many of the citizens are the Lebanese. Who were hoping this would evolve into a war against Israel. And trying to connect with Israel all that time

b	Right.	sv	and there really was no connection at all.

aa	No.	sd(^q)	but boy those Lebanese in Jordan, they were saying you know, this whole war is Israel's fault because Israel told the United States to attack Iran

sv	no matter what situation they see they're going to find their cause whether it truly exists or not.	b	Right,

aa	I know.	sv	They just hate,

sd	But, see you are also getting back to the ages old problem of Arab Israeli conflict, as far as personalties and who is the selected one of God	b	Right.

sd	and theirs tie so much to their religion.	aa	Yeah,

ad	go ahead.	sd	Well, I, we're going to compare notes.

b	Yeah.	sd	I often desire to exercise, often believe I should and rarely do.

sd	I do it every day on a regular basis.	qw	what, what sort of regiment do you have?

sd	I travel quite a bit in my in my business,	b	Yes.

sd	I do it every morning usually after breakfast before I take a shower and get, you know, dressed going you know, to go to work.	b^r	Yes.

sd	so you don't start at this kind of regiment, you know.	b	Yes.

sd	but I do twenty five, where you have your arms above your head and and your body twisters touch you know, left and right toe	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I do, ten, right and left, trunk twisters.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	And I do, about sixty, bicycle, leg thrust type things.	b^r	Uh huh.

sd	And I do, twenty, leg lifters on each side. You know when you're p , laying on the floor.	b	Yes.

sd	and, then I do about,	ba	My goodness,

sd	now if you did football, like the old grass drills where you're on your stomach and you	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that takes really about, maybe about thirteen minutes, in the morning.	b	Yeah.

sd	Years ago I used to, referee football	b	Yes.

sd	and, to stay in condition, I did that, just as a normal basis,	b^r	Yes.

sd	and then I do about a hundred before supper and about a hundred before I go to bed.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I lost fifteen pounds just by doing that because you tighten your stomach muscles	b	Yes.

sv	within reason, you know, you can lose weight or maintain your weight and your physical being	b	Uh huh.

sv	I, I think it's really important.	sd	Well, I, whenever I do it, I feel good. I mean good that I have done, good because it seems right and good because it has good effects.

ba	Good.	sd	but it's this maintaining a regular habit that I just can't seem to do.

sv	Well, that's why Chuck, I think, if you did it on a daily basis and you didn't need elaborate things, you know, where you can make excuses like,	b	Yeah.

sd	and during the summer, I'll do, you know, at least seventy five miles a week and when I really was doing it maybe a hundred and fifty,	b	Uh huh.

sd	there's excuses, weather	b	Yep.

sv	But if you do some basic exercises and you say every morning, just like brushing your teeth you're going to spend fifteen minutes or a half hour. And you get up a half hour earlier	b	Uh huh.

sv	and once you start getting into that, you just feel good	b	Yes.

sv	and you look a whole lot better.	b^r	Yes.

sd	and there's no way I can get her to.	b	Uh huh.

sv	If you don't like to exercise, you know, it isn't going to happen.	aa	Yes,

sv	and you know, no sense getting in arguments with anybody, about it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, if you get one of these mats. You know, go to a store, they normally have these exercise, things, these A B C s of physical fitness on them.	b	Yeah.

sd	One of my kids got me one of those for Christmas one year	qw	what, what, what's on, what's this mat, I mean,

sd	so you can put it up, you know, just in the corner.	qy	Is it like the sort of thing you take on a camping trip and sleep on it.

sd^e	you can do that.	qy^d	I mean, it's that kind of like half inch of foam or something.

ny	yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	and it's just about six feet long, rolls up	b^r	Yeah.

sd	if I do like sit ups, I'll throw a towel down or something. You know,	b	Yeah.

qy	did you vote in the last, national election?	ny	Yes,

ba	that's good.	qy	Did you get to vote at the last one?

sd	if I got the last local one.	b	uh huh,

sv	you're not sure where to go and vote and all that.	b	Right,

sv	or you don't know you know, where they stand or anything like that.	b	Right.

sv	I think you're right.	sv	and also they're fed up with the system,

sv	or sometimes they don't like either of the choices for the candidates,	b	Right.

sv(^q)	so they think, well, you know, why vote.	aa	Right.

sv	especially in Texas .	b	I know it .

aa	yeah.	h	So I don't know,

b	Yeah	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, we get this lackadaisical attitude,

sv	It also seems like maybe another candidate that nobody wants could slip in if, you know, not enough people are voting.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's kind of like in Louisiana where that, guy that's like a Ku Klux Klan member something got elected.	aa	Yes.

sv	Kind of scary when you think about that.	b	Yeah,

ba	gosh.	b	Yeah,

sv(^q)	people will sit home and assume, that guy would never get elected.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Next thing you know, you've got him.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	^q	You know, I like what he says,

b	Right, yeah.	qy^g	And, I think that's sort of what happened with Louisiana because, the guy did get elected, correct?

na	Right.	sd	That's what I thought.

sd	he sure did.	sv	, but you know, they can always fool us, you know.

sv	I think one thing that maybe would help people vote is if the polls were either open more days, or you could mail it in, or something like, if you have real strict work hours, and you can only go like at seven in the morning or after work and you have to stand in line for so long	b	yeah.

sv	I think that discourages a lot of people.	sd	What we do, usually, is, vote, absenteeism

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I know, here, you know, you don't have to have any reason,

b	Right.	sd	and the polls are open, what was it, a couple of weeks,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so we've got plenty of time to go, because down here in Houston, the lines are long.

sd	I would be tempted to do it again.	sd	Well, I recommend it, because you just walk right on in, and there's usually not anybody in line

b	Right.	sd	and, you know, that vote's just as good as, you know, the one on election day.

sv	I think they should change the whole system so that it's easier	b	Uh huh,

sv	I think more people would do it if it wasn't such a hassle.	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh,	sd	you know, the views, and, you know, everybody gets to vote on, you know, well, should he be for this and on and on and on,

sd	A lot of times I'll vote a straight party ticket just because I don't take the time to find out you know, other than the major candidates, what they stand for on what issues,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I'll just trust well, the party kind of goes along these lines so I'll go ahead and vote.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, if it, gets down between two, then I'll vote for the party because I know, you know, something about the other guy

b	Yeah.	sv	or, you know, they're both just as bad,

sv	I guess it'd be best if you knew each person and what they stood for and why and everything.	sv	But it gets to the point where,

sv	and try to determine if what you read was objective or not.	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't agree with how the media handles elections.

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, I'm tired of hearing about the polls, you know, you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	it's just ridiculous.

sv	I think it could affect the outcome, you know, could make it unfair.	aa	Uh huh,

b	yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

sv	the press has a lot of power.	aa	They really do.

sv	you'd really open a can of worms.	aa	yes,

sv	and I don't think they ever care to.	aa	No,

fc	Well, it was good talking to you.	fc	All right.

fc	Bye.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	I guess, I'll just start by saying that we entertain with, a gourmet club here. which means that we have like eight people, four couples.	b	Uh huh.

sd	most of the husbands cook.	ba	Great.

sd	but it was the guys that got together and did all this.	ba	that's nice.

sv	I think it's caveman,	b	Right,

sv	and it's a good thing because, you know, you can't knock that.	aa	No.

sv	And it's really, really kind of a neat thing to do.	qw	How often do you meet?

sd	It's like, you know, if we can do it once every six months, we're doing well .	b	yes,

sd	So, I mean we originally started out, you know, when we were younger and didn't have so much stuff going on with the kids.	b	Uh huh.

sd	then we tried to do it every other month,	b	Yeah.

sd	but lately it's just been once every six months .	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, we were a little bit too frequent I think.

b	Oh.	sd	I don't remember if we were once a month

b^r	really .	sv	It's too rich.

aa	it is absolutely.	sd	And, so, we found that while we enjoyed the evening we regretted it the next day.

b	Yeah .	sd	and then one of the couples, moved

sd	so I mean he can get within,	b	yeah,

ba	my.	sd	so that's a real problem because so many dishes require cheese.

b	yeah.	sd	well, I take that back.

sd	it makes you, keep looking for recipes every time you have an eye out, for something like,	b	yeah.

sd	but that's basically what we do is the gourmet,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so, you know, they would be pretty elaborate.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean it took us four days to cook a stock and three days to make this stuff,	ba	wow.

sd	and, you know, you get all prepared	b	Yeah.

sv	it really is.	b	Yeah.

sv	I just, think it's neat.	aa	sure I do too.

sd	I just love sharing meals and, and whatever you can do, you know, to do that.	b	Right.

sd	I don't think you have to be, you know, more than hamburgers and hot dogs out, in the backyard and the, and the coleslaw and potato salad.	b	Right.

b	Oh.	sd	And I did a cop out on to it

qw	What are you providing ?	sd	and I have to make hors d'oeuvres

ba	There you go.	sd	so, I'm buying the little tiny rolls and so on.

sd	We're all not built like, what, Martha Stewart, you know.	^2	Those people that try to do everything.

sd	We all aren't Martha Stewart and have our coordinated glasses and tablecloths and, and time to, you know, t ,	ba	Ugh .

h	I don't know .	aa	Yeah,

sd	I mean I love to make things from scratch, you know. Making breads	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you know people really pretty much appreciate it.	ba	they do.

aa	I think so.	sv	or if you do buy it, it's extremely expensive.

b	Oh.	sd	And I've never been there before. And found that there's, individual vendors

b^r	Oh.	sd	and the foods are wonderful.

b^r	Oh.	sd	And it's like thirteen fifty for a whole strawberry cheesecake. which is really not such a bad price.

ba	There you go.	sd	but I was very tempted because it looked wonderful,

b	Oh.	sd	but those are homemade.

sd	I mean, we have bakeries around here that, you know, you just gain weight going by the door, you know, just like that.	b	Right,

sv	I guess some of the best things I've ever had, some of them were just hors d'oeuvres, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Doing little hors d'oeuvre things that, I have a kick making that, I mean, you know .	b	Yeah.

sd	But gee, we have so much going on here because you know this is Dallas,	b	Yeah.

sd	this is, you know, chips and Picante sauce and anything hot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know you can always make it hotter, and lots of stuff like that, you know,	b	Right.

sv	so. That's, a really good party time, eating all that hot food	b	Yeah.

sv	and they just love it, you know, down here.	sd	We like hot food too,

sd	all the stuff that goes with that,	b	Right.

sd	I'm from Chicago.	sd	I thought, I thought, that there was a slight difference in accent.

sd	and how, I got to Texas by way, of Virginia and everything is a long story.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	qy	do you have a favorite hors d'oeuvre recipe that's easy

qy^d	so you're into microwave cooking.	ny	Yeah,

sd	something that we can just cook in a hurry after we get off work.	b	Yeah.

sd	I've gotten in the habit of cooking something big on the weekends so that I have leftovers all week.	b^m	All week.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, we're eating it for a week and a half,

sd	It's just my husband and I, too	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I try not to make so much that it lasts more than that week	b	Yeah

sd	but, I usually, I usually like to make spaghetti or soup or chili or, you know, something like that or sometimes a roast,	b	Right.

qw	What's your favorite thing to cook if you're having a dinner party?	sd	I have a great recipe for sour cream chicken enchiladas

b	oh.	sv	it's really good,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, every time I've served it, everybody just loves it.

sv	that sounds delicious.	sd	So that's one of my favorite things to make.

b	Uh huh.	qo	What about you?

sd	I end up with an old stand by that we call Russian chicken, because it's so easy	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that's about it, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then you take and make a dressing out of, Russian dressing, one bottle of that and a package of Lipton Onion Soup mix and three ounces of apricot preserves	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I cover the pan with foil and put it in the oven for about an hour	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I take the foil off and let it brown takes about another twenty minutes	b	Uh huh.

sv	and it's delicious	ba	Ooh,

sd	and by the time I've got everything else ready, the chicken's done.	b^m	Is done,

sd	So that's a real easy thing for me.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've got a great recipe for cheese cake.

bh	really.	qy^d	I don't know if you get SOUTHERN LIVING,

sd	my mom gets that,	sd	they have one,

b	Really.	sd	and, you know, every month they've got all different kinds of recipes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but inside the cheese cake, recipe you put, lemon peel and orange peel

b	Uh huh.	sd	so sometimes I'll do that overnight, and then put the topping on the next day,

sd	I have not done that well with.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have had a recipe that someone has given me that it's kind of like you just mix cream cheese and stuff and refrigerate it, you know	b	Right.

sv	but that's not the same as a New York style cheese cake.	aa	No ,

sv	and it's really not very good	b	Right.

sv	I bet that lemon and orange peel gives it a little bit of tartness.	aa	It does,

sd	so there's your good dessert for your dinner party.	b	Right .

qy	Are you into serving wines with your dinner party?	na	sometimes,

sd	I wish I knew more about it.	sd	I've been to, you know, some wine tastings up in Napa Valley

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, and I learned a little bit about them then,

sv	They would be, if you just had time to do it.	b	yeah,

ny	Uh huh.	bk	okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then you get to eat everything afterwards,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it sounds like it's a lot of fun.

sd	well, I didn't even know they were offering that.	b	Yeah,

sv	well, I bet that would be a fun thing to do.	b	Yeah,

fp	Hello.	fp	Hello.

fp	Hello,	fp	Hello,

sd	it took forever to find somebody.	sd	well I'm glad you found me.

qy^d	and I guess we have to, talk about credit cards.	ny	Yes.

qy^d	well, if you're ready, then	aa	Okay.

sv	So. I think they're kind of dangerous.	aa	I think they are, too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I would love to just take some scissors and cut them in half.

sd	me too.	sv	I think sometimes when you look at the interest that you're paying on them, that's what gets to be the really scary part, you know, if you think, when it comes around to income tax time, and you look at how much money you paid out just in interest all year,

sv	they're really trying to get you into that situation, because they know they've really got you then,	aa@	That's right.* needs slash unit note punctuation Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	and it's just easier to say, you know, just put that on my credit card.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and then it seems like takes forever to pay that off.

sd	I mean, I think like half the amount that they cost in the first place.	ba	Wow.

sv	and now that's real irritating.	aa	It sure is.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We haven't done it lately.

sd	It was only a thousand dollars that we needed for the truck.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You never miss one or whatever	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so we charged them all up again.	ba	no.

sv	It's so alluring, and so easy to get,	b	Uh huh.

b^r	yeah,	sv	And, if you could stick to that, you know, we'd get rid of a lot of indigestion and everything else.

sd	and she was eating a cupcake and now her crumbs all over.	ba	dear.

sd	and I just thought, you know, if we ever had something go wrong with our refrigerator or something, you know and we had to buy one, then we would really need that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we weren't smart enough to not use it,	sv	You know, one thing you might do with, in a situation like that, though, it's just like keep,

sd	and, I'm, not for gun control, in the strictest sense of the, word.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, I have quite a collection myself

b	Yeah.	sd	but I don't want them to completely turn loose of their controls either

sd	only outlaws will have guns then.	ba	I believe that.

sv	And I believe that too because the person that is wanting to, commit a crime is going to find a way to get a gu , a gun, a knife, a rock, a stick, whatever it is, to commit a crime with,	b	Yeah.

sv	but there's an element that can't.	aa	Yeah

sv	They have got them outgunned.	aa	You know. Yeah.

sd	It had, held like a fifteen shot clip, which, they would be able to put down anything that came at them,	b	Yeah .

sv	but you figure you got some drug guy out there that's got an Uzi machine gun, a thirty eight,	aa	Yeah,

sv	Smith and Wesson revolver isn't going to do you much good.	aa	No

sd	you didn't have to list your guns,	b	Yeah.

sd	this was twenty years ago.	b	Yeah.

sd	But they had that so that they were trying to control it a little bit in that respect.	sd	See in California they, In California they make you register when you buy ammunition.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You have to sign a, you know,

b	Yeah.	sv	now rifles aren't too bad,

sd	You had to fill out an application and, go down to the sheriff's office and get fingerprinted	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, then } you had fifteen days while they checked to see if you had any kind of criminal record before that you could pick up the gun you were purchasing.	ba	Gee.

sv	I think that, you know, a waiting period, can make a difference	b	Yeah.

sv	but again it's going to be the law abiding citizen that's going to comply with that.	aa	Yeah,

sv	So there's, I don't, think there's any way to control the criminal element as far as guns is concerned because,	b	No.

aa^r	right.	sv	You know, I think if we kind of stiffen them up a little bit, course,

sv	we're getting into capital punishment now .	aa	Yeah,

aa	But I agree with you there that,	sv	It would definitely be gun control .

sv	the, again the purpose of gun control is to control how it is being used is what the purpose should be.	b	Yeah.

sv	It's not to keep people from buying a gun that need one for a specific purpose, legal purpose but to keep the guy that's illegal from getting his hands on one.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, the legal person or lawful person should not be penalized because there is the criminal element.	aa	Yeah.

aa	yes.	ar	They're not, you know,

b	Yeah.	sd	well I did in the service but you know, not on the street

sv	You don't have to carry one in your car or your, or your pocket all the time.	aa	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't,

b	Yeah.	sd	I have a good time with them

sd	My wife the same thing, she knows how to shoot any weapon that we have not that I have an arsenal or anything,	b	Yeah.

sv	one of these days my grandkids probably.	aa	Probably.

sv	but, still I think they ought to know how to use one and that it's not just a toy and that it's not like on T V when someone gets shot, they get back up.	aa	No,

sv	If someone gets shot with a, real gun they don't get back up.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know I've taken time to teach them

b	Yeah.	sd	so he started with the B B gun and shot a couple of holes in a couple of windows

sd	and he took me out with him and, single shot twenty two, and taught me how to shoot.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, and, he taught me how to shoot, a old single shot twenty two	b	All right.

sd	and, I was probably about twelve at the time,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, of course Uncle Sam took me hunting with him	b	Yeah.

sd	and he let me shoot and showed me how.	b	All right.

b	Right.	sd	You know, I don't want to get out there deer hunting and have some guy blow me away,

sv	we agreed pretty well on this I think.	aa	Yeah,

fc	Well it's been real nice talking with you.	fc	All right,

fc	bye.	fc	Bye bye .

qy	Do you go camping very much?	nn	No,

sd	we try to go once, maybe twice a summer. just, you know, for like a short weekend or something.	sv	that's pretty average to me .

sd	We don't go for you know, week long thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But we usually go to, a lake area, you know, where the campsites, are and do that.	b	Right.

sd^e	a tent.	sd	that's how I camp too.

sv	You're really roughing it.	sv	the rest of that is really not the same.

b	Yeah.	sd	As a matter of fact, my, you know, the majority of the amount of camping I've done has been really roughing it.

qy	I mean?	ny	Yes,

sd	I'm in Garland.	bk	Oh.

sd	Right outside of Dallas.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she was pretty young when we started, camping with her.	sv	the kids love it.

aa	I know.	sv	I mean, they just love it.

sv	and they have to use sticks and rocks and stuff like, that to play with.	aa	Exactly.

sv	It's pretty fun.	sv	really is a, is a good family thing, to do.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	we try to, go with another couple that have children also.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we kind of split it up.	ba	Good planning .

sv	Because it really does get expensive if you don't want to rough it all the way.	aa	Exactly.

sd	and, and so we've built that up.	aa	You're right.

nn	No.	bh^m	No?

qy	Do you?	t1	well, actually, you know what I would love?

bk	Oh.	sv	That doesn't go along with camping,

sd	I would too.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, so we'll go to a lake where they can go do that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the girls can play on the beach area .	sd	And I would play on the beach area too.

b	Yeah.	sd	That's what I would do.

b	Yeah .	b^m	Yeah.

ba	That's fun.	sv	I'm just sitting here listening to your accent and thinking what a good time the computer is going to have with that.

qy	Am I pretty Texan?	na	You're pretty Texan.

sv	you don't sound like it to me.	sd	I've only lived here about six years.

bh	have you?	sv	So, i , if I have one, it must be very, very slight.

b	Yeah.	sv	The Yankees can hear it.

sv	I have, I guess more of a twang, to my voice .	b	Uh huh.

na	I sure am.	bk	Oh.

sd	I've lived here all my life.	ba	Well, good for you.

sd^e	we went last summer, actually.	qy^d	I'm wondering, I'm really not that not familiar.

sd	we did like, we drove down to Houston to visit friends,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	And I said, Well, I'd love that	sv	It takes a lot more planning.

sd	and ever once, you know, on you know, my week long vacation, I, want to be a little bit pampered, you know, by a, hotel and a waiter .	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I don't know if you have ever heard of it?	nn	No,

sd	And, it has like dinosaur tracks, and stuff like that	ba	that sounds, That sounds great.

sd	So we're going to try to do that like on a three day weekend, go there	qy	Have you ever camped out of state?

sd^e	I haven't.	ad	You know, where you should try, sometime is Colorado.

qw	Where at?	sv	It is beautiful.

bh	Is it?	na	Absolutely beautiful.

b	and, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I would love to camp, in the mountains.	b	Yes.

sd	she loves that place.	ad	See, you need to go there.

sd	She says that where we need to go sometime.	sd	It's, you know, it's, it's high canyon

b	Oh.	sd	And, in the early fall time,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't remember what type of trees they are,

b	Oh.	sd	and it's just brilliant.

sd	I love that.	aa	Yes,

ba	That's neat.	sv	I know you would.

sd	I used to go camping all the time as a Girl Scout.	sd	I was too .

sd	All the time. I got real used to it then.	b	Yeah.

sd	I felt like we roughed it then .	sd	well we did, you know,

aa	Exactly.	sv	It's not camping.

sd	I mean, we had to make the fires and dig latrines and everything.	aa	Right,

sv	You have to get poison ivy and all that good stuff, to really be camping .	b	Right.

qy	Well do you, you say you haven't been in years?	nn	No,

ba	gosh, bless your heart.	ft	thank you.

b	Yes.	sd	I think I haven't been able to do it,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And I'm a little bit fearful of trying that just women.

ba	I don't blame you.	qy	You know?

ba^r	I don't blame you at all.	sd	I hope,

sv	Years ago it would have been fine	aa	Yes,

b	Yeah.	sd	and that was great.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, I stayed in a nice place.

aa	I kn ,	b	You know.

ba	I can imagine.	sv	I'm just a chicken.

ba	I don't blame you, not nowadays.	sd	I haven't quite adjusted, you know?

ba	Good.	ng	So, well it's, It was a good plan but I haven't yet .

bk	Okay.	sd	I got into sales,

ba	that's neat.	sd	And it's fun

qy^g	It's hard isn't it?	ny	So, yeah,

qw	Now, how old are your girls?	sd	Eleven and fourteen.

ba	goodness.	b	Yeah.

sv^r	You're not old at all.	co	Well, excuse me just second.

aa	Sure.	t3	Honey, I'll be wi ,

qy	Do you need to go?	nd	Well, I'm going to listen.

ba	That's very smart.	b	Yeah

qw	How many have you made so far, calls?	sd	I haven't made any.

qw	How many have you had so far, do you know?	sd	I think I've had about four.

ba	that's good.	b	yeah.

ba	Very good.	sd	That's four each.

b	Yes.	sd	and it's like virtually anything.

ba^r	you bet.	sd	And it's been real interesting, the different personalities . That I run across.

sd	I always try to find out where they're from, you know,	aa	Exactly.

sv	because it is neat.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It really is.	b	Uh huh.

fc	Well then, I guess I'll let you go so you can go get the door	fc	Well, thank you.

fc	me too.	fc	You have a good time camping,

fc	Thank you.	fc	All right.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qo	well what do you think?	sd	Well, I don't know, I'm thinking about from one to ten what my no would be.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, I believe, I think the N R A has gone overboard the wrong way. You know,

b	Yeah.	sv	they're sitting there on number ten,

b	Yeah.	sv	Because there has got to be some kind of background check to see, that the people who are buying a gun are buying it for a useful purpose, you know, if you're going to hunt with it, or if you're going to do sport shooting you can wait a week.

aa	That's true.	sv	It's not a big deal for them to go.

aa	That's true.	sv	any of that kind of stuff.

aa	Right.	sv	If the gun shop owner does it,

aa	That's true, I think,	b	Yeah,

sv	they are going to get a gun no matter what.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think they're going to go out and find it someway, individual sale or something like that.	aa	Yes.

aa	That's true.	sv	that's the kind of people,

sv	I just think it makes honest people more honest	sv	and the people who want it, it's not that big a deal, like I say, to wait.

sv	And, if you have to have it in a hurry, something's wrong .	aa	Yeah,

aa^r	That's right.	b	Oh.

sd	so we talk about this a lot .	b	Yeah,

sd^e	I was watching a,	ba	Gosh,

^2	worried about that.	sv	Too many people have too much access.

aa^r	They do.	sv	and, I think, the other thing that we ought to control to some extent is, there should be some law against the types of gu ,

b	Right.	sv(^q)	basically it says here buy me and go rob a seven eleven

sv	or even the little toy guns look real.	aa	yes

sv	and that's kind of scary to think that you may be shot for holding one.	sv	Or your child accidently.

b	Yeah.	sv	If your child is old enough,

b	Uh huh.	sv	that's the truth.

sv	It looks like they've got a weapon.	sv	You can't ,

aa	That's right,	sv	Because there's been kids that age who have killed people.

aa	Exactly.	sd	And, you know, you know, there was a law I think it's in Oregon, where they've now made all toy guns,

sv	and I think, that's a good idea.	b	You know like, yeah,

aa	That's right.	sd	My kid didn't care.

aa	I know.	sd	He picks up a stick and goes bang.

b^r	right.	sd	It doesn't make any difference to him.

sv	A gun is a gun to them.	b	Yeah .

aa	That's exactly right.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Exactly.	sv	You know, so that they're not very distinguishable from a real gun.

sd	and, and they encourage it.	sv	That's kind of ,

sd	and, So, it was quite unusual to see the people in that town.	h	I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think that's a lot of it too, is that people need to teach their kids, what to do and what not to do.

aa	Exactly.	sd	Because my Dad started letting me shoot like a little air B B gun, when I was probably five or six years old.

b	Yeah.	^q	this is how you hold

b	Right.	^q	and you don't ever touch it unless I'm here,

sd	That's what we're doing.	sd	then they went to the Texas Parks and Recreation, I guess,

b	yeah.	sd	I think it started in about nineteen seventy.

b	Oh.	sd	if you want to go deer hunting

ba	Well, that's neat.	sd	or you can't get a deer license.

ba	Well, that's real neat.	sd	and it, it's basic stuff,

b	Yeah.	^q	and then you crawl over it, and shoot yourself.

b	Right.	sv	And, those things happen.

ba	Well, that's real good.	sd	it is always incredible to me the number of times those kind of stupid accidents happen to people.

sv	And they usually are real basic, common sense things.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and people don't want to believe that.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah,	sd	I took the clip out, or whatever

b^m@	In the chamber . That's exactly right.	b	Oh.

sd	She knows real well about her Daddy's guns, what not to do and what to do around them.	b	yeah.

sd(^q)	she'll even tell her friends, don't ever, touch my Daddy's guns or something like that.	^2	Don't even think about it,

sd	and he'll tell how he's doing it or, you know, show her the insides or stuff like that.	b	Yeah,

^2	to be feared	sv	not something to be curious about and not something to be totally scared about.

aa	exactly.	sv	if it's just one more piece of something,

sv	they'd have that respect for what it does, and what it can do.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then the shells are in another part

b	yeah.	sd(^q)	And, I was like, I live in a nice neighborhood,

b^m	still .	sd	and then I've got it so far,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's in a case,

b	Right.	sd	but, I don't want to take the chance

^q	hold on ,	b	Yeah.

^q	I know he is.	b	Right.

sd	but, boy if someone did break in, I don't know that I could or would even grab it .	aa	I know,

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	It was like, you come after me, you're going to get it. you know,

b	Yes,	sd	and now there's so many other things, where are the kids, what are they doing, you know, where is this person coming in from,

b	Right.	sv	and then, you know, how can you even afford to think about what you're going to do because you don't know where your kids are, at the same time.

sd	well we have dogs that are you know, very protective, you know .	b	Ugh.

sv	if they're stupid enough to come through then .	aa	Yeah.

sv	and most people that, break in or whatever, go to houses without the dogs, luckily.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, that's one of them	aa	Unfortunately,

fc	Well, do you think we've,	fc	Yeah,

fc	Me too, on gun control.	fc	we're in pretty good agreement actually on it.

fc	I think we are.	fc	it would be even more interesting you to be some of these people who are at the other end of the spectrum.

fc	I'm glad you're not .	fc	Me too.

fc	Well good!	fc	Well, it's been nice talking to you.

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye. .

sd	so football, I love this.	b	yes.

sv	but they seem to be doing pretty good this year.	sd	Well, I was from Illinois originally,

b	Oh.	sd	And we had some wonderful, wonderful years there under Roger Staubach .

b	Yeah.	sd	We expected it to continue forever.

qy	Well, they haven't, have they just lost one game this year?	ng	I think two.

bk^m	Two.	sd	I know they lost, yeah, to Washington and Philadelphia.

sv	People are pretty surprised that I mean they beat the Giants.	aa	Yeah,

ba	I bet .	sd(^q)	People running up saying, what's the score, what's the score?

qy^d	boy, I bet all the men that got direct down there were just right on it .	na	That's right

b	Yep.	sd	I had forgotten

sd	And I think I was just mad because he spent so much time watching football on Sundays.	b	Yeah.

sd	I couldn't see him until like Tuesday because MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL, if I didn't, like football.	sv	That's exactly where both of the wives came from I think.

aa	Yep.	sv	it's easier to join them than fight them.

aa^r	uh huh.	sv	And if you want to see them, you might just as well enjoy football.

b	Yeah.	sd(^q)	And I used to tease my husband sometimes and say, my gosh did you bet the house or something this week to get so excited about, these games.

sd	We're not convinced that we're going to be Cowboy fans yet.	sv	Well, it takes a little brainwashing first.

sd	Well, I guess we'll first have to get to used to the idea that we're staying here .	b	Yeah.

sd	That's even harder.	qy	Are you, transit usually?

sd	and he just got transferred here to E Systems,	sv	Well, it will take you a little while

sd	And here, yeah you've just got to drive down to the stadium	aa	I know.

aa	Yes.	sv	But, Dan Reeves is a pretty neat guy anyway.

sd	Well, he's from here.	aa	Yeah,

b@	So, Yeah .	sd	he was one of our boys.

sd	That's what I hear.	sd	So we never cheer against Denver unless they're playing the Cowboys.

sv	Which is rare.	b	Yeah.

sd	They take popular songs and change them to fit, the Broncos and stuff.	b	Uh huh.

sd	They did Johnny Elway to that.	b^m	Johnny Elway.

sv	I think football is kind of a sport that I think you kind of, it's hard not to like it.	sv	Well, there is so much about it to like.

sv	It's exciting.	aa	You know it's so exciting.

b	Yeah.	sd	And when the Cowboys won the Superbowl here, of course, they put together some real cute songs,

sd	This interstate seventy five song. Or whatever it was about Central Expressway and getting it done in nineteen ninety five and everything.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	the topic was, should the United States adopt the metric system, and if so, should,	qw^t	How should they do it?

b^m	And why didn't it work last time? .	sd	Well, I'm all for it.

sv	I wish, it had started a long time ago, is the problem, because we're so wound up in the in the system that we've got that, you know, trying to convert over,	b	Yeah.

sd	and I guess, they tried what'd the call it, soft conversion and hard conversion	aa	Yeah,

sd	and you give it some sort of a weird metric number like six point two eight seven instead of six millimeter.	aa	Yeah,

h	I don't know.	sv	I think they you know, start, just go all the way on new products introduced or whatever, you know, start your packaging, go to liters instead of quarts,

qy^d	Well doesn't just about everything now have both metric and English.	na	They do,

aa^r	yeah.	sv	But if they started putting it in liters, of oil, and you know, liters of gasoline, people are going to learn to think in metric.

sd	I believe it was Exxon	ba	It figures.

sd(^q)	So they could put this sign out front that said, you know, thirty nine cents a liter.	b	Right.

sd	And nobody had any idea what a liter was,	ba	that's the problem.

sv	so you can figure out what you're actually paying for it.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but by the time I was in fifth or sixth grade anyway.

b	Oh.	sv	I would expect people with any kind of buying power you know, under the age of thirty or so, to have some idea what it is, anyway.

sv	when you learn one from the other, you always end up in this conversion thing all the time.	b	Yeah.

sv(^q)	but, you know, it's like somebody said, okay as of such and such a date, you know, anybody caught talking in the English, you know, will be shot or something like that, you know.	sv	Well, thing is, it's a global market place these days,

sd	I read that, what Uganda and,	^2	Something.

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't, you know,

qy^d	course you're familiar with any drawing system you end up with things in inches in parts of inches, you know, half, fourth, you know, this sort of thing.	na	Right.

sd	And then you end up with a decimal, where you start getting into mils, and that sort of thing.	b	Right.

sd	And then some of them are done in, you know, purely metric.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it got to, you know,

qy	have you ever lived in a country where they use metric.	nn	No.

sd(^q)	You know, if you start talking about miles, they'd look at you like, what.	b	Yeah.

sd	it's in a can that's taller but not as big around.	b	Yeah.

sd	and temperature is the big thing the Centigrade for which she says Celsius.	b	Yeah.

sv	if it's between twenty and thirty it's pretty warm,	aa	It's getting warm, right.

sv	You know, you don't get all the little differences	aa	Yeah,

sd	but the difference thirty and thirty five degrees is, quite a bit.	sd	Is about twice as much, what it works out to.

sd	five .	sd	One point eight times as many points.

aa	something like that.	sv	so. I think as long as people have a choice, they're going to stick with the American way.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And until we have to learn to think that way, we won't.

qy^g	they're on metric, aren't they?	ny	Yeah,

sd	And this thing was even different than, you know, S A E standards and stuff.	b	Right.

sd	it was Austin motors engine and running gear.	b	Right.

sd	and, it was a total mess.	ba	that would be a mess.

sd	so. It's just crazy.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	Because you're never going to get to one system if you still got a mix.

sd	I thought maybe they would convert to, metric back when they went to the fifty five mile an hour speed limit, because what is it fifty six or fifty seven's qua , a hundred kilometers,	b	Yeah.

aa	you'd have people going, you're right, a hundred miles an hour.	b	Yeah.

sv	That'd sure seems like a long way.	aa	Yeah,

aa	I guess that's it.	sv(^q)	Every road sign you come to, is like, well I don't know it that far.

sv	they could've converted it to metric just about as easy.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	At that time, anyway, that was still when things were,

^2	Not all that common.	sv	You know, now cars, they have both.

sd	And you got to know where you are because anything that was the old canal zone is going to be miles per hour,	b	Yeah.

qw	What are you afraid of with them?	qy^h	What am I afraid of?

ny	Yes.	sd	I don't know if I'm really afraid of spending too much.

aa	Well, that's can be very, very true.	sv	and you know, everybody just gives you a credit card just so you'll spend money

sv	They figure that, if they give you card, at no charge for a whole year that you will use it	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, the other thing, of course, is the fact that they hope, you will not pay your bill at the end of the month, so that you would be paying interest.	aa	That's right.

sd	I use mine a great deal, for groceries, for everything that I can and, then just write one check at the end of the month, for the entire thing,	b	Uh huh.

bf	Sounds like you have a little one there.	sd	I have two little ones.

bh	you have.	ny	Yeah.

qw	How old are they?	sd	four and two and half.

sv	boy. Those are two very active ages .	aa	Yes.

qy	Well, do you ever use the A T M machines?	nn	No,

sv	Well, I find it a great use from the standpoint that you don't have to continue to write checks, in order to get cash.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well the other thing some people are not aware of, is they will use their credit card like their Visa or their MasterCard for cash	b	Uh huh.

sv	and when they do that, they begin paying interest right from that very day on.	aa	You're right.

aa	Absolutely.	b	Yeah.

sv	Because they, they figure that, that's correct .	sv	Your defeating the purpose.

sv	The idea is to use their money .	b	Yeah.

sv	And, during that whole month and, then pay it at the end of the month.	b	Yeah.

sv	Well, I think that's the only thing you can do, is just say no and mean no and, not be tempted.	aa	Yeah.

sv	That's their favorite word.	aa	Yes.

sv	Well, it's interesting, that, people have generally the same view. of credit cards, no matter where you go.	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	And, then they can't meet the minimum monthly payments on it.

sv	Well, and some people use one credit card to pay for another credit card they own,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, I mean, that does nothing, but exacerbate the entire problem.	aa	Yeah,

ba	That's right.	b	Yeah

fc	Take care of your little ones.	fc	you too.

fc	Uh huh.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	it's a little Tercel .	b	Uh huh .

sd	so I got him to take the alternator off and take it and, you know, get a replacement part.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it blew out all the fuses.	ba	no .

b	Yeah.	qw	How much was the alternator?

sd	I bel , something like sixty nine dollars, something on that order.	qy	did he hook up the wiring wrong?

qy^d	I don't know if you have them in your area	ny	Uh huh.

sd	but there's just some little difference that, causes it not to work an i ,	b	Uh huh,

sd	and that was my last experience.	sd	Well I had a weird,

b	Uh huh.	sd	this little sensing device costed like sixty bucks .

ba	Goodness,	sd	and I haven't had too many problems with my car,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then, you know just basic maintenance and oil changes

b	Uh huh.	sv	so after buying the filter and all the oil, you're looking at ten bucks at least, or somewhere in there and, and then to go to the trouble, that I figured it's easier spending eighteen bucks at Jiffy Lube.

b	Yeah.	sd	as far as any maintenance on my car, I shy away from the oil changes,

sd	so I really can't complain about this one.	qw	How did you put that many miles on it, in, four or five years?

sd	it was a seventy mile trip everyday, you know, two ways was seventy miles.	qy	a hundred and forty mile trip?

sd^e	it was just seventy miles.	bf	thirty five miles each way.

aa	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	but still I drive a long ways.	b	Yeah.

sv	But I guess because they're highway miles, you know, it's not so bad on your car as if it, you know, were just regular street, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I do.	bk	Okay.

qy	Do you?	qw^h	I was going to ask you, you know, as far as how we're getting compensated for what we're doing right now,

b	Uh huh.	qw^d	and, I just wondering how I go about getting the cash .

sd	it's the same number that you call to make a call.	bk	okay.

ad	and you can leave a message.	aa	Okay.

sd	and they'll call you back.	aa	Okay,

b	really.	sd	And, I've done it maybe twelve times.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well I don't know if I've done it quite that much,

sd	let's see before I had this car I bought an Audi five thousand	b	Uh huh.

sd	so the engine never got put back together again.	b	well.

sv	I think those old cars might be a pretty good bet because you ,	b	Yeah,

h	I don't know, i ,	sd	the body was in good condition

b	 Uh huh,	sd	you know, after about thr , couple of months after I was out of college I finally splurged and bought my car

sd	I read a book one time that said that the best cars were made before seventy four.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And they last a long time.

sd	I just don't know how much they'll want to charge me to,	sv	It almost costs so much to fix anything or do anything with it,

o	Here goes Sharon.	b	Okay.

sd	That's the only thing I found out tonight .	qy^h	you found that out tonight?

ny	Yeah.	^h	I haven't even heard that,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, there are some others out there that I don't believe deserve the money they're getting.

sv	Well, isn't it funny how baseball's getting less than like football players would.	aa	yeah.

qy^g	And a lot more games, right?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	^h	But I think, let's see,

sv	I mean, I know Yankees have won a lot games . through the years.	b	Yeah .

sd	I tried to call earlier,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I don't even know where I even put that paper .	qy^d	Threw it away .

sd^e	I was just cleaning and throwing,	ba	gosh.

qy	Well, have you ever played baseball?	no	I played softball.

sd	Well, that's what I did when I was growing up.	b	Yeah.

sv	That was fun.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

qy	Do you ever go see the Rangers?	na	Every once in a while I like to go on the nights when there's not very many people out there.

sd	I like just looking at the billboards.	b	Yeah.

sv	it's nice at night.	aa	Yeah.

sd	That's when I've been.	aa	It is.

nn	No.	b	Yeah,

qy	what was, no, wait about the liquor?	sd	that's in, Texas stadium where the football players, play

b	yeah,	sd	and they're never going to let liquor in there.

sv	Well, they're trying.	aa	I know,

b	Uh huh .	sd	But, that new stadium's going to be real nice,

b	right.	sd	And it's going to go to the highest bidder .

sd^c	That's my kids turning on their music.	b	Oh.

sd	I think it's the Bart man, the Simpsons .	sd	God . I stay away from them.

sd	I wish I could .	ba	I bet you do.

sd	I'm in Garland.	bh	you are?

sd^e	my husband teaches in Plano.	qw	what's he teach?

sd	C V A E.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I teach for Dallas.	bh	you do?

sd	I'm trying to get out.	qy	Is that a tough system to be in?

ny	Uh huh.	qy	Real hard?

ny	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

sd	and then they throw it out, and get something else, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	and you get tired of that.	sv	That's typical bureaucracy though.

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know,

sv	they don't have as much money.	b	Yeah,

sv	Most of the time.	sv	but the politics gets worse in the small towns sometimes.

sd	there's so many of them .	qh	You don't even know who to payoff, .

sd	and you don't know what they're there for, you know, when they're coming, how long they're going to be,	b	Yeah,

sd	and they're writing the whole time .	qy^d	No communication whatsoever.

sd(^q)	and I finally just got to where I go, okay, I'm Debbie Moore, you know, may I ask who you are and what you are in my classroom for, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	Because, you know, you never know where they are going what they'll report	aa	I know.

sd	and you hope they're telling you the truth.	qy^d	And you never see it.

nn	huh uh.	ba	That's got to be frustrating.

aa	it is.	qw	How long you taught in Dallas schools?

sd	this is my eleventh year.	sv	that's about, ten too many.

sd	now my job's good, much better than a lot, because I'm Chapter One,	b	Yeah.

sd	and all I do is teach reading all day long,	b	Oh.

sd	and it's just ten children at a time.	ba	well, that's not bad.

sd	and you've got a lot of federal money, too.	qy	But hasn't it changed a lot over the years?

qy^h	Teaching? .	ny	Yeah.

ny	yes.	qy^d	Or working in the system.

^q	We don't even know where one is.	ba	God .

sd(^q)	And so I go, okay, I mean, you just, did , what you wanted to do,	ba	How funny.

sd	and now they tell you what to teach and how long and, you know, what day, what period.	b	Yeah,

sd	I know which is worse.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	qw^t	So, how long are we suppose to talk for?

sd^t	but you don't have to.	bh	you can?

^q	and please say good bye within the next five seconds.	sd	I haven't ever talked that long.

sd	Well, you know, I hadn't either till last night, I was talking to this retired administrator from Cleveland, Ohio,	b	Uh huh .

sd	and we started talking about gangs, you know.	qy	He lives in Cleveland?

ny	Yeah.	ba	Wow.

sd	And, everybody else that I've talked to has been right around here.	b	Yeah.

qy	have you taken any incoming calls?	na	yours is my second one.

sd	and it went over ten minutes.	qy	did she, did you all not talk about the topic at all?

sd	but the topic was boring I thought.	bk	Oh.

qw	What would you serve, if you were having a dinner party?	sd	the one I talked about the other night was good,

sd	I could go on and on about that.	sd	Me, too, because we go all the time,

ba	Ugh, neat.	sd	So, that was real good to talk about that.

nn	No.	ad	You've got to go see that.

sd	The last one I saw was DANCES WITH THE WOLVES.	b	Yeah,

sd	I enjoyed it.	sd	I did, too.

sv	I mean, it was just more for my money.	b	Yeah.

aa	Uh huh.	qw	And, how old are your kids?

sd	and one is eleven.	ad	You probably don't want to take them to see SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.

sd	They usually pick their own.	ba	I bet they do.

sd	You know, they've got it all figured out.	b	Yeah,

nd	Well, and Ninja Turtles.	b	Yeah,

sd	But most of the time really we watch them on the video.	b	yeah,

qy^d	Just massive rental.	sv	well heck, that's a lot cheaper then, taking them out to the show.

aa	I know.	sv	Especially if you get them for a couple of nights you don't have to watch them all in one time.

sd	That's what we do, especially when it's bad weather, man, just, plug it in.	b	Yeah.

sv	and nobody has got them yet.	aa	That's true.

ba	Unbelievable .	aa	That's true.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was okay,

qy	Do you read?	ng	Not very much,

bh	No?	sd	I don't have the patience to read .

sd	See I do that to make myself go to sleep at night.	b	Yeah.

qy^g	You saw FIELD OF DREAMS, right, a long time ago?	ny	Yeah,

sd	and it's called SHOELESS JOE.	bh	really?

sd	and that's been real good.	qw	Who is the author?

no	don't ask me .	bk	Oh .

sd	The GHOST OF SHOELESS JOE was the name of the book.	b^m	Shoeless Joe.

ny	Yes,	bk	Okay.

sd	But, you know, in the movie the guy was black,	b	Right.

sd	There really wasn't a lot of difference.	sd	I didn't,

qy	Well, do you think we covered baseball?	na	I think so .

b	yeah.	qw	What is it that you are, you know, particularly upset about?

sd	and, my kids go to parochial school.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you can influence the way things are.	bf	So you're saying that the taxpayer who also is really paying through the pocketbook for the education of the child may not be quite so conscious of the fact that they are paying the tuition for that child in the form of, real estate or other taxes

sv	The immediacy just isn't there.	b	Uh huh.

sv	people are, reluctant to pass, school tax levies even, when the money is needed or would be well spent because they don't have kids in the schools.	b	Right.

sv	and there's an immediate problem.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	it means that you've got to be informed

sv	I think the principal was, education for civic participation.	b	Right.

sv	and you couldn't pull the wool over their eyes.	aa	Right.

sv	I mean and I think that one,	sd	Well I'm glad that you added that one.

sd	And, that's why I guess I'm sort of, reluctantly, in favor of these, choice programs.	aa	Right.

sd	And I guess to do that I'd probably have to take it at home.	b	Oh .

sd	I enjoy the beach.	sd	after our last summer's vacation I am antibeach.

b^m	Antibeach.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Well, we were out visiting one of our kids in Maryland,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, the waves were huge.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I was standing in water not more than, barely above my ankles

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, you know when the waves go in the waves go out they kind of all of a sudden you're in sand above your ankles.

b	Right.	sd	And I was standing there talking to my daughter

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I'm never going to another beach again, ever.

sd	I prefer a swimming pool .	sd	Well, I love to go and play around.

b	Uh huh.	sd	that's my biggest gripe about living here.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I basically, don't want to go to a hot place on vacation .

ba	I can understand that.	b	Oh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	This is just someplace I've always wanted to go

ba	That would be nice.	sd	and someday I hope we can afford to just take a humdinger of a vacation up there.

sd	and I really enjoyed that.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we've been talking about going there next summer .

sd	I've never been up to the Yellowstone area.	sd	It's been a long time.

aa	You got that.	sd	we usually go up to Wisconsin at least once a year because this is where my husband and I are both from.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And my mother and his mother live up there feeling lost and alone because we moved down here .

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, we've got one of our kids lives out on the east coast

sv	Well, you have a lot of vacation areas you can go to then.	aa	Well, I know

b	Right.	sd	I want to go someplace different up there.

aa	That's right.	sv(^q)	my idea I guess of the ideal vacation would be to begin with, money be no object. You know, so just absolutely, you know, first class fly where I want to, rent a car if I want to. you know, just really the nicest hotels and stuff like that and and not worry if somebody says, well, let's take this little side trip, you know, and not have to sit there and figure out, you know, again we fit that in there or not.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, that's what I, you know, that's what I would like to do.

b	Uh huh.	sv	To me why somebody would want to ride around on a boat for a few days is mind boggling.

sv	I feel like it would be confining.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know I would much rather get on a plane and get there and then enjoy myself.	b	Uh huh .

b	Uh huh.	h	But, I don't know

sd	Because, you know, I think that they have it all over there in just a few tiny, two miles.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's all right there.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and our standard excuse for not going someplace like that is, you know, gee, Holly would starve to death if you know, we took her into the country

b	Oh.	sv	so . So, but I would like if, you know it was anywhere in the world to go, I guess, even though it's hot,

b	Right.	sd	I would like to go to Africa.

ad	I'll let you start this time.	qw	Well, how much do you like lawn and garden work?

nd	Well, even though it's totally out of my degree training, I've been working as, in the horticultural aspect, so the last, I don't know, fifteen, twenty years, so I'm,	bk	Oh.

sd	Well, I work for the state as a grounds keeper.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I guess, growing up on the farm and that, I've always had a big interest,	b	Right.

sd	when I have an area to do, I always had a big garden and enjoy working on lawns and everything.	b	Uh huh.

b	Okay.	sd	but I still take care of the, you know, flower beds and things like that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I was going to dig them up for a friend and for some starters for me,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so the hibi , hibiscus plants no longer exist .

ba	that's terrible.	sd	And I really feel bad about it,

b	Yeah.	sd	So, they're all gone at this point.

b	Yeah.	sd	and, Texas is just so hot in the summer and so dry,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And so with that, why, our lawns do stay, you know, pretty nice all summer, if you water.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But in the winter, we have Bermuda grass

b	Uh huh.	sd	and in the winter it turns as brown as a grocery sack

b	yeah.	sv	and I just think it's ugly .

sv	I think the Saint Augustine and, Centipede grass is another one you have quite a bit of down there	aa	Uh huh,

sv	those two.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	but they really have a heck of a time keeping it going in the middle of the summer.

b@	 Yeah.	sd	They have to water an incredible amount.

sd	and, you know, they just grow rocks	b	Right.

sd	it was raining continuously.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And then, I know with all that moisture, a lot of the lawns get a lot of disease problems.	aa	Yes,

qy	are you, able to get, sometimes a double crops of certain things in your garden?	ny	Yes,

ad	Why don't you start?	h	I don't know.

qr	Things you already owned or things that you've picked up just to do that?	br	What?

qr	Are they things you already owned or you pick them up just to do that refinishing?	nn	No,

sd	I've done both .	b	Yeah.

sd	I guess that we've been fairly successful with those.	b	yeah.

sv	that's a kind of low risk sort of project, isn't it I guess.	aa	Yeah.

sd	I have a, really nice desk. A nicer desk than I could afford. Which I got because my sister who worked in a hospital, liberated it after a fire	b	Uh huh .

sd	and it turned out to be a nice desk. Maple top I think or something of that sort.	b	Uh huh .

bh	really?	sd	You know, a kit.

ba	I'm jealous.	b	Yeah.

sd	I've built my own deck and, things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I picked up a bunch of Craftsman tools from the forties that my wife's father owned when he was alive	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I can't say I use them very often .	b	Yeah

sd	and that's a whole lot easier than doing it with a chisel .	aa	I'll bet.

sd	But I've also used them where you, for rabbeting because, rabbeting on my, radial arm saw is a little bit uncertain .	b	Uh huh.

sd	and now I use it twice a year maybe .	b	Yeah.

br	The ones that what?	sd	That you dial in on the side.

sd	the little use that I've gotten from my router, I would say, I would spend my money on the bits .	b	Uh huh.

sd	I have I'd guess you'd call a medium quality Craftsman router	qw	How strong is it?

sv	any time you buy a tool with a, a, as a, as a package the bits that they give you are low end.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So. That's a thing to consider is to,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Especially, I did some cabinets in, ash and oak	b	Uh huh.

sd	We remodeled and saved a bunch of really nice ash cabinets, which had been in the original, remodeling of our kitchen.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, routing hardwood will, take the edge off a cheap bit pretty fast .	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	Big solid pieces of oak are just tough.

qy^g	And then you take the blade to the to get sharpened, right .	nd	Well, that was, you know, with a circular saw.

b	Uh huh.	ba	Like, my gosh.

b	Right.	qh	Is this going to be fun ?

sd	and now all my blades need sharpening. Because, treated wood will also chew them up.	b	Yeah.

qo	so, Jack, what type of music do you like?	sd	Well, I like, classical, and, sort of, popular rock type music.

sd	I never really had listened to it till I got married,	b	Oh.

sd	and my wife, enjoys it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And even every once in a while I put it on myself, you know.	b	Yep.

sd	I like those.	b	Yep,

sd	Though I couldn't tell you anything about them other than when my wife says, This is Bach, you know.	b	Oh.

qo	How about popular music?	^h	Yeah.

b	 Yeah.	sd	It's mostly just the tunes.

sv(^q)	You know, people always say, Wow! the meanings of those words.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I just thought they just all sort of rhymed, you know.	ba	I know,

sv	That, whenever they say it two or three times.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I, I commute back and forth between Baltimore and a rural town called Salisbury, which is two and a half hours away,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the difference in the radio with popular music, is totally different, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	because Baltimore will play more, what might be considered a little bit more progressive?	b	Uh huh.

sd	And as soon as you go down to Salisbury, this town that's, you know, two and a half hours away in the suburbs or whatever, in a real rural Maryland, it turns into basically classic rock.	bh	Yes?

sd^e	mostly oldies.	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, like when the Doors movie came out, you know, Doors was really on the radio there, you know. Where, you know, you'd hear one or two of their more famous songs, maybe top forty in Baltimore,	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	but in Salisbury, that's all you would hear was, This is the Doors!, you know.	b	yeah,

sd	So, it was sort of a funny thing.	b	Yeah,

aa	but there is.	b	Yeah,

sd	and I never really noticed the difference when I moved to this area?	b	Uh huh.

sd	It just seemed the same.	b	Yeah.

sd	But when I went more rural, you know, it really changed.	b	Yeah.

bh	does it?	ny	Yes.

b	Yeah.	sd	now, you don't have to wait till the hour mark.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you get the latest news and everything.

ba	Boy, that would really be beneficial.	b	So, yeah.

sd	I never get it.	aa	Yeah,

sv	You know, and if you don't read the paper, you sort of fall behind if you're in, the car all the time.	aa	Yep.

ba	that's pretty good.	sd	I like to listen to tapes, of music or, or, stuff on a long trip.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, now you can even get books on tape,

sd	On fact, my grandmother does that a lot, because she's blind,	b	Uh huh.

sd	or she's losing her sight or whatever.	b	Yeah.

sd	I can imagine, you know, if you're driving cross country, you know, listening to a story.	b	Uh huh.

sv	lot of the classics are really, on tape.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	ba	So, that's a lot of fun

ba	that would be good.	aa	Yep.

sv^t	Well, we strayed a lot from music.	aa	Yeah,

sv	but I guess music comes into that whole aspect of listening. So as long you're listening.	b	Right.

fc	Well, Jack, it was nice to talk to you.	fc	Yep.

fc	and I hope you get some more calls and make some more calls.	fc	All right.

fc	Bye.	fc	Thank you.

qo	What kind of lawn and garden work do you do? .	nd	Well, right now the place where I'm living, the yard was basically neglected for about the last twenty five years,

qy	you've been working on it for three years?	na	f , for three years.

qw	What have you done? .	sd	Killing lots of fire ants.

b	Uh huh .	sd	Because it was like, you couldn't even stand still out there.

sd^c	You know, I can barely hear you .	qy^c	Is this better?

sd^e	a little bit, yeah .	sd	It was like you'd go out in the yard to water something, you'd just be standing still.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the ants would start crawling up your legs.

qw	How did you get rid of them?	sd	Dursban Two.

br	Pardon?	sd	A chemical called Dursban Two,

bk^m	Dursban Two,	sd	it's a crystal.

qy	so you haven't had a problem with that, since?	no	not bad.

b	Yeah.	sv	but that's, to be expected.

qy^d	Not really.	ng	as far as I can tell it hasn't killed anything it wasn't supposed to.

sd	and we're just not real into the lawn probably because we're renting, I guess,	qy	you said you had problems with fleas last year in the yard?

ny	Uh huh.	sv	I found one thing that, it's kind of a weird thing to say to put out on the lawn,

qw	What?	sd	Powdered sulphur.

qw	I wonder why it does?	sd	you don't have to put a whole lot out,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's real fine, like flour

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you just go out, and do the entire yard,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I mean, you don't have to put clumps of it,

qy	do you enjoy doing it?	na	I love it.

qy	Do you have a garden?	^h	this is the neat thing about the place we ended up at. Sitting on about a two acre lot now,

b	Uh huh.	na	the back half is my garden.

qw	Where do you all live?	sd	in Missouri City.

b	really,	sd	southwest side of Houston.

br	Southwest where?	sd	Southwest Houston.

fc	and, do you have anything else you wanted to say?	fc	no,

fc	and we'll talk to you later.	fc	Okay,

qy	Martin, do you do any exercise?	ny	Yes,

qw	How's the weather out there in Georgia?	ny	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but in the winter it gets pretty cold.

bk	Oh.	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	qo	how about yourself?

sd	I'm riding my Aerodyne bike, half an hour every morning,	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's it's kind of kept me from getting cabin fever and, has seemed to be a real nice aerobic exercise.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I'd really like to get into that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's it's really fun.	b	Yes,

aa	uh huh.	sv	but it's like low impact aerobics, just with weights.

b	Yes.	o	Okay,

qy	Have you done that?	ny	yes,

b	Oh.	sv	that's the in thing.

bh	That's the big thing,	sv	At first it was just regular aerobics,

qw	So how is that?	sd	they call it a low impact aerobics,

bk	Oh.	sd	And from when I've done it, it does give you a real good workout.

b	Yeah.	sv	they seem to think that it won't,

qy	do you have healthy knees?	ny	Yeah,

ba	dear .	sd	But, I've kind of taken care of that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, wearing that I haven't had any problems in the past year or so.

sd	He he injured his ankle about seven months ago playing volleyball,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, he's just had a heck of a time getting that ankle healthy.	b	Yeah,

sd	he wears his brace and his high tops	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh, .	sd	I mean, it would only take three or four days

ba	dear.	qw	so how successful is your exercise video?

sd	It is amazing how fast you take off the inches	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then, every other day I'd like to incorporate the video, and then the bike on the other day.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the muscle builds real fast.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then after that you can just start with your five pound dumbbells, and then build up to your, twenty five pound dumbbells	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's a hour long video,	bf	So it's a good workout.

sd	so I'm looking forward to losing this weight and being firm and healthy .	b	Uh huh.

qo	what sort of camping do you like to do the most?	sd	well, I do, real rough type camping.

bh	rough type, ?	ny	Yeah.

sv	motor homes can be a lot of fun.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	aa^r	They really are.

b	Yeah.	qo	How about you?

sd	Well, so far my wife and I have pretty much had to stick with tent camping.	b	Uh huh.

sd	This summer we went to, the Smokey Mountain National Park. And, stayed about three or four days in there.	ba	how great.

sd	It was wonderful.	b	yeah.

sd	and, it was beautiful, beautiful few days.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It worked out particularly well, especially considering she was, what, six months pregnant.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was one of those, dome type pop up tents.	b	Uh huh,

sv	Nice and quick and easy to put up.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, about had to be something like that getting around in a Pinto.	aa	Well, that's true,

sd	It was a lot of fun.	sd	I guess the last real, camping trip I took has been a couple years ago.

bh	yeah?	sd	I went to California up to the Sequoias.

qy^d	that's got to be beautiful territory.	ny	Yeah,

qy	What, like, Sequoia National Park?	ny	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	But, that is God's country,

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

 qy	Do they still have the scenic, roadways that cut through the center of some of those trees?	nn	no,

bk	Okay.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	so far, New Orleans is far west as I've gotten. Well, New Orleans and, Minneapolis.	b	Uh huh.

aa	yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	We're hoping one of these days soon after we're out of school to head that way.	b	Yeah.

aa	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sv	They seem to be trailing out quickly.	aa	Yeah ,

b	Yes.	sd	And, course, the Sequoias and the Redwoods , and you get up into Bryce Canyon and Yellowstone

ba	I imagine.	b	Yeah,

ba	I would imagine they are.	sd	Course, I guess I'm partial to big tree country.

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know why I got stuck down here in Texas now .

qy^g	not a whole lot of forestry down there, is there?	nn	No ,

bk	Oh.	sd^e^r	Not around here .

sv	Place is forested with those concrete trees.	aa	Uh huh,

qo	Anyway, what do you figure has been the longest trip you've taken camping?	b	Yeah.

b^m	Three weeks.	sd	And I was actually on the road a little more than three weeks.

qy	the whole family, then, was in on this?	ny	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	b	Yep.

qy^d	That would have to be a blast.	ny	Yeah,

qy	well, you went out from Texas up into that area?	ny	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	sd	And then we went up the Big Sur Highway all the way up to San Francisco. and then cut across through the wine country. And then went down to, Sequoia National Park.

qy^g	Big Sur Highway, that's, where you're pretty much in view of the ocean almost all the time aren't you?	ny	yeah.

sd	It's the first time I've made a phone call on it.	qy^t	so you pressed one?

na	Right.	bk	Okay.

sd	I read, a lot of Steven King, Dean R Koontz, some Danielle Steel.	b	Uh huh.

sd	My aunt got me hooked on those .	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	they're all novels.	bk	Okay.

sd	I'll read some, classic, too.	qw	like what?

sd	like THE GRADUATE by Steinbeck.	b	Yeah,

sd	A ROSE FAMILY by Faulkner. That's one of my favorites.	sd	I have never read a lot of Faulkner.

sd	and I read the book from that.	ba	cool .

sd	I'm from North Carolina .	sd	I'm Doug,

qw	What kind of books do you like to read?	nd	well, a bunch of stuff, I guess, fair number of novels, but mostly shorter ones.

sd	I really have to be in the mood.	qy	Right?

sd	I read one, like maybe once a year.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've never read anything by him.	b	Okay.

b	Yeah.	sd	But they were still very heavy and philosophical, also very funny.

b	Okay.	sd	and, I read a lot of non fiction books, too.

sd	I like to read a lot of non fiction history when Civil War era and that kind of thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And that was on T V.	qw	Now what's that?

sd	It was, during Teddy Roosevelt's time. And, about a American woman that got kidnapped in, Morocco.	b	Uh huh.

sd	this is when they were having their revolution or whatever	b	Uh huh.

sd	and Teddy Roosevelt sent troops over and really portrays him as a, kind of a crazy man, you know.	b	Yeah .

sd	I had no idea that he was like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it should be a grizzly bear because	bk	sh , .

sd	and that's what made me want to read the book.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm a real big fan of hers	b	Yeah.

sd	I like to read some of the philosophy stuff.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah,	sd	It's all about how to have out of body experiences and all that.

sd^r	I'm fascinated by that.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and, even stuff about, not like ghost stories, but real encounters with ghosts and supposedly haunted houses.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Some of it really freaks me out .	b	Yeah.

sd	I read DIANETICS once I got past all the gibberish on it.	qy	did you like it?

sd	it didn't help me that much .	bk	Uh huh.

sv	But, I think once you're set in your ways, you're set in your ways.	b	Yeah .

sd	and I got the job that I wanted by applying the methods that,	b	Uh huh.

ny	Yeah . .	sd	you laugh.

sd	And we had five.	qy^d	You've been through the fun part .

qo	And how about yourself?	sd	I have a four and a half and a three.

bk	Oh.	sv	I'm sure there's a lot of differences in the way it's done now and then.

sd	but I always just made it a point, you know, to spend about ten minutes with each one of them.	b	Yeah.

sd	So it was an hour, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	But whether it was going back and laying in bed with them and just shooting the breeze or whatever, telling them stories or reading to them.	qw	What was the age difference between the youngest and the oldest?

sd	Six years.	qy	So they were all real close?

ny	Yeah.	ba	That's tough.

sd	We look back and wonder how we did it.	qy	Did you both work? Your wife too?

sd^e	she never did.	ba	well, qualify that.

ny^r	yeah.	sd	well both my husband and I work

b	Yeah.	sd	Maybe thirty minutes max.

sv	Well that's plenty though.	sd	And well he spends a lot of time with them while I'm cooking

sv	Well, you know, with kids you're not going to have a neat house.	aa	Well, I've accepted that too .

sv	And, you know it's tough to find time. espec , especially with both of them working.	aa	That's true.

ad(^q)	And you just have to set the time and say, okay this is going to be it.	aa	Well, that's true

b	Right.	sd	If my husband golfs, you know, he'll do it during nap time, things like that where they're not really missing the presence, you know.

b	Right.	sd	and we do a lot of family things together.

ba	that's good that way too .	sv	Well, I decided that, you know, you need that once in awhile. That you, you need to plan the quality time

sv	Well, they say it, it, all it takes is about five, ten minutes a day.	b	Yeah.

sd	you know, and as the kids got older I made them, you know, help me cut the grass and kind of made that a project too. Or whatever	b	Sure.

aa	yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

b	And, well, yeah,	sd(^q)	My daughter's like, Mommy can I help you with the laundry?

sv	Just keep them talking that way.	aa	Absolutely.

sd	But, another thing we used to do is have family councils. Every Sunday night.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we'd take turns being president.	bk	Oh.

sd	And I always thought we'd get outvoted five to two	b	Yeah.

sd	but it never worked that way.	bf	So they would just pick whatever issue kind of was at a head that week

sd	Well and we could bring up and we could bring up stuff too.	b	Oh.

sd	Boy, we really got to know the kids well.	ba	I imagine.

sd^e	In fact, they were all in, over the weekend for Easter.	ba	that's wonderful.

sd	Well, we did too.	b	Yeah.

sd	And I remember the one daughter saying, we had a friend of hers that used to drive us up a tree	b	Uh huh.

sd	kind of hit us between the eyes.	b	Yeah,

sd^e	But that was always good quality time for us.	ba	Now that's good.

sd	but if they missed it, they had to abide by the rules.	qy^g	Whatever was voted on,

sd^e	and boy, they'd show up.	ba	Well I think that's great.

sd	And we'd usually take notes	b	Yeah.

sd	and, you know, the younger kids, or maybe all of them needed help at one time or another.	b	Yeah.

sd	And they loved it.	aa	I think that's true.

b	Yeah.	sd	And we would always come up with something that was harder than what they would have done you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	So I do think it's right that they're harder on themselves, you know.

sd	But, boy, I feel for you and your husband.	qw	why is that?

qo	So, what things do you consider an invasion of privacy?	no	well I don't know.

sd	I started to think about all the big, you know, data bases they have with all the information about you on them like the credit reports and all those, you know, demographics studies that they do that, you know, have, who knows, how much, you know, stuff about all the purchases that you've made and everything kept tract somewhere	b	Uh huh,

sv	but I know I mean they sell those,	qo	Well what about, required drug testing, as a, condition of employment?

sd	I mean I know drugs are illegal.	sd	I, have worked at Texas Instruments.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, they instituted a Drug testing policy where they randomly would test, employees

b	Uh huh.	sd	and actually, to tell you the truth, I really did not think much about it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, also, this is against the law for the government to do this kind of big brother activity

b	Uh huh.	sv	So what that means is, to me, that really it's the government that's requiring this,

sv	I think they should be evaluated that way rather than with you know, a chemical, you know,	qh	Well, what about this, AIDS epidemic now?

qy	These people that are carriers and don't that don't reveal it?	sv	and and, of course, the ultimate solution is to operate on their brain so that it doesn't,

sd	I mean I've heard of things like, you know, you know, marking them somehow you know, or something like that or, you know, putting them all someplace like in a kind of,	qo	So what about that as an invasion of privacy?

sv	Wel , I guess it kind of borders on I mean what do you value more. The invasion of, the person's privacy or the possible danger to, you know, other people.	b	So really,

sv	I guess that's been the big role of government, I guess . I mean generally.	sv	Well, it's supposed to have been.

sv	I mean that particular case.	ar	No,

sv	not a huge part but a, you know	^2	A growing part.

sv	the AIDS population I guess that have it, that don't know they do are spreading it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I don't know how exactly I feel about that.	sv	Maybe chop their weenies off.

qy	And you say you have some strong feelings about, the issue?	ny	yes

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think that, we simply must start accepting everybody in the world.

b	Uh huh.	sv	there just is not going to be room for all of us.

ny	Uh huh.	sd	I am one of the unemployed right now.

b	Yeah.	sv	And I know that there are a lot of foreigners, here, you know, doing my line of work.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, of course, I'm not perfectly happy about not having a job.

b	Right.	qo	So, how do you feel?

sv	They always like to be able to attract the, Einsteins or the Professor Chou	b	Right .

sv	Those are two things that I think are going on. Although I, I don't think the politicians would tell you that.	b	Okay

sv	so they keep allowing, the pressure cooker to let off steam.	sv	And I think probably it's pretty important right there.

sd	But I'm not to sympathetic about, letting large numbers of Haitians in.	sv	Actually, actually I feel that if we accepted these people that we would eventually have almost the total population here.

b	Yeah.	sv	And it would have nothing to do with political situations.

sv	But yeah. If you let them in a million at a time, you know, it wouldn't make that big a bulge in the population. But politically and economically.	ba	my gosh.

sv	I mean it is now with Haitians the way it was with Cubans, twenty years ago.	sv	Well, I mean and the two of them together.

sv	So there's a lot to be said for having a steady stream of people who know how it is someplace else coming in.	sv	But there's some differences in the immigrants, that we're getting now.

aa	Sure.	aa	I think, probably a great deal of what you say is true about the legals.

b	Right.	sv	But, the majority of the illegal immigration we're getting now, they do not come here to blend into America.

b	Uh huh.	sv	We send a lot of money to Mexico.

qo	Well, how do you feel about trial by jury?	sd	I feel very uncomfortable with trials by juries recently.

qw	In what way?	sd	In that it seems to me that they are swayed more by emotion than, by evidence that's presented.

qr	do you feel they are swayed more toward, are you talking about with criminal or civil suits?	sd	I was thinking primarily criminal cases.

qy	So, do you think that, I mean the stereotypical bleeding heart juries where they feel sorry.	ny	Yes.

sd	I like the idea of juries of your peers in that you, you get personally more than one person making a decision.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And second of all, you get a wide variety of background	b	Yeah,

aa	I'd agree with that.	sv	, too often I think they are not

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, when you are selecting a jury and you are doing it partially if not entirely on the basis of which color representation you have you know that is a matter of concern to me too.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I think that, in such cases, they are not really looking for unbiased people, but rather for biased.

b	Uh huh.	sd	now I happen to know several judges

b	Uh huh.	sd	but the other two I feel, would give either you know, the plaintiff or for the defendant the the full benefit of the law.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I guess that's what I am concerned with.

sv	well, what I don't like about, the jury doing the sentencing in that I think it becomes a lot less,	b	Uh huh.

sv	the same crime gets unequal sentences.	aa	This is very true.

sv	I think there is more of an ability you know, you know for selecting two different juries that would most of the time come up with the same idea versus you know whether he is guilty or innocent	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, I think there would be a large variation in trying to gage the severity of the crime and an appropriate punishment and have that measure stick across the board.	aa	Yeah

b	Uh huh.	sv	but one individual got twenty five years

sv	Of course a lot of that's also the ability of the defendant to, get a good lawyer.	aa	Isn't that the truth ?

b	Uh huh.	sd	goodness, my mind has gone blank it's, Othello.

aa	I agree .	sv	But, it's taken me a long time to understand that, lawyers are concerned with the law and not with justice you know, as, as novices tend to think that, attorneys care about justice.

sv	They will admit to you that they don't have the benefit of being able you know, of, of, allowing themselves to believe their clients that are guilty	b	Uh huh.

sv	it's more of the game plan of how do they convince the judge or jury through argument.	sv	And they are very effective too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have been involved, just slightly in a case where I know the person is guilty

b	Uh huh.	sd	but, his attorneys gotten him off.

b	Uh huh.	sd	the city has dropped their charges against him because the attorney has presented enough evidence of doubt to convince the judge.

o	Okay.	b	All right.

b	Yes.	sd	My, mother was divorced in nineteen, fifty seven, when I was seven years old.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I was the first one, of anyone that anyone had ever known, to have a divorce.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Of course, now fifty percent divorces in the United States,

b	Right.	sd	And, they all felt that there was never an issue that my father was the cause of the reason for the split up, even though he had impregnated another woman and forced the divorce.

ba	mercy.	sd	it was always my mother's fault, she was not, sufficient, you know, she just was not good enough.

ba	that's too bad.	b	yeah

ba	It really is.	sv	so, {D you know, that's so changing,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I was first generation going to college in my family.

b	Uh huh.	sd	first, my mother had always had a quote career, but always a career as in a secretarial position.

ba	that's wonderful.	sd	She was a secretary the jud , to, a circuit court judge, federal judge.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it was a lifetime appointment for her as well as for him.

ba	Well, that's wonderful.	sd	She made over thirty thousand, a year.

ba	That speaks, well of your mother.	aa	Well, yeah,

qy^d	She had high standards.	ny	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	hard driving lady with a steel rod up her back, you know.

ba	bless her heart.	sd	so I went to college and now since have completed two masters degrees

^2	Challenges.	aa	Absolutely.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Challenges that have to do with my sex.

b	Right.	sd	for instance, well, you know, I am just not taken as seriously, you know, at professions, as many of the men who are doing the same job I do.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, the choir members treat me differently because I am a woman, they expect me to be more motherly,

b	uh huh.	sd	So I am pretty ob , pretty cons , I mean, I am pretty aware of what goes on in the church.

b	Surely.	sd	well I am done talking.

sd	And I can, relate to that,	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think it's the image that the woman has and, in the world, as, the lesser of the two.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but the changing is taking a long time longer than we would like it to, like it to take.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, I think we are progressing at a snail's pace,	aa	Indeed.

sv	but we are progressing.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, that's the main point is that we are going ahead.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, I think that, in the long term that women are going to be able to have the recognition that they deserve.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, men, a lot of them have, come around and have seen, the error of their ways.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But there are a lot of die hards out there that will never change.	b	Uh huh.

sv	So we have to, face that reality also.	sd	I have never been able to figure out why they can not ever change, why they can not bend. I mean, why they can not just accept, you know, competent women,

sv	It could be, if they are not sure of themselves.	aa	Sure.

sv	The one's that, go along with that, they are sure of themselves.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And they know that they can, you know, be on the same level.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And they do not have any, ego, problems that they are fighting.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	And, I think that we are going to be, on par with them in salary and in recognition, in the long term.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and what I would like to see happen futuristically, is what we are discussing, is that yes, we each have our, jobs in life, and that we should recognize that. And that we should support each other.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, I think our problems would be fewer, if we supported each other. And just looked at each other as equals and none lesser, because we are equal.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	They, in their own peer relationships, they do not treat themselves equal,

b@	 Uh huh,	sd	I think probably is as enlightened as anyone can be at this particular stage in their life time.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	those are the only issues we ever fight about.

sv	And if we, men and women, would do as the Bible said, that we would esteem each other higher than ourselves.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Can you picture that?	ny	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, if your husband did that to you, and you did that to your husband, you would always be trying to please each other and not yourself.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, that's really the divine answer, and the right answer .	b	Uh huh.

sv	So, that would be a beautiful relationship.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	And I think there are some people that have done that,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I have seen it.	b	Uh huh.

sv^t	Well, I've been, I have probably had more time than you have to think about this subject ,	b	Uh huh .

sv	I do believe it's a serious problem.	b	Yeah .

sv	However , there are solutions to it.	b	Uh huh .

sv	we're probably making a comparison against, some European and, s s say, newer republics that, that have very high percentages.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	And then we further complicate it by saying, you know, we will keep the polls open until eight o'clock.	b	Right .

sv	My solution to that is that we hold it on Sundays. As do probably sixty to seventy percent of the European countries now.	b	Right.

na	no they hold it on a, either a Saturday or a Sunday, or at least a day when, a great number of people are not working.	^2	Sunday.

sd	but that is one of my solutions. ...	sd	, I know here in Dallas that they have just instituted in the last couple of years, a real long period of time that you can absentee vote before the elections.

qy	Have you absentee voted in in Texas?	nn	No .

sv	and it is a fairly complicated process where you have to go pick up the ballot.	b	really.

sv	but other states you have to register every couple of years. ... Well, to vote, to just vote .	qy	To absentee vote specifically?

sv	And we're the mobile society,	b	Uh huh .

sv	that is almost a fourteen percent turnover every, you know ,	b	Uh huh.

sv	if it is difficult to register to vote, that would remove your eligibility to vote.	sv	But I do not think it is difficult enough to prevent people who are motivated in the first place, , or, who are not just motivated who really believe that they, their voice is heard.

aa	Well maybe that is another factor , the motivational factor.	aa	Right.

sd	one of them is WHOSE STARS AND STRIPES NOW?	b	Uh huh.

sd	THE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT OF THE PRESIDENCY IN NINETEEN EIGHTY EIGHT.	bh	really ?

sv	It is the only way that you can use television effectively.	sd	I don't understand that.

sv	If you don't refute it, as he didn't, there must be some truth to the matter, see .	ar	Well, he did refute it.

sv	And indeed his trend started upward.	sd	Well see, I, I didn't believe anybody would believe that either.

ad	Well, don't give too much credit to the American public for their motivational ability .	qh	Well, then how can a democracy work then?

no	well, I don't know.	qh	how can it work?

sv	Everybody seems disappointed ,	b	Right .

sv	but they don't throw the rascal out, their own rascal.	b	Right.

sv	That sounds rather crass, I think, because then you are saying, well, {D y y you know } , in , y y, it could be convoluted in many ways where people would actually, by paying them,	bh	What?

sv	the whole thing just stinks.	qo	Well, how about the reverse of that?

sv	but the idea is to get the individual to the polls, a a and we have to make it as easy as possible for him to get to the polls .	sd	, I don't care how easy it is for them,

qy	you mean the special interest groups?	na	Right.

sv	I mean, but but he's excused from that.	aa	Yeah.

sd	Generally, people, I've read polls now where they've excused him because there was a definite necessity to balance the budget.	qw	Well, then why did he say that during his campaign?

sv	he did he did, he promised the best he could.	sv	it was totally irr ...

sv	And being associated with government, he should be held up to the light for that.	aa	Yeah.

sv	And maybe he will.	b	Yeah.

sv	I think voters are motivated, ...	qo	what about voters in the other countries that you were talking about?

sd	Well, I don't know if they have higher turnouts overall.	bh	You do not think so ?

sd	I think England has about a seventy percent, sixty five percent turn out.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think that we just discovered in, in the Indian elections is one of the greatest greatest and massive things in the world.	b	Oh .

sv	just, it got more violent every year.	b	Right.

sd	They went down almost fifty percent in this election before they blew up Ghandi. But, simply because people were so concerned about their inability to, that their vote does not count any way. And the corruption of politics in, in that s s situation there.	bh	really?

sv	th , but, you know, everything is relative to when, you know, we had higher turnouts because at that time we talk about the turnout relative to the eligible voter, right?	b	Yeah.

sv	but before this Voting Rights Act, what we had was a great deal of our population, mainly the blacks in the south and the Hispanics were precluded by, by, , voting laws, from their eligibility to register.	b	Uh huh .

sv	Now everybody is available.	b	Oh .

sv	because all the eligible voters	b	I see,

sv	you know, it was skewed by the eligible voters being less than the total population of ...	sv	were disqualified .

sd	I just, I mean I haven't studied the statistics well enough to,	b	Yeah .

sv	I mean, I think in this sort of conversation we can only do our own reaction.	aa	Well ... Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And at one point they took another vote on it,

qo	What do you mean?	sv	Well, with the minorities and we are saying we have lower voter turnout.

sd(^q)	I thought, Gee, I haven't taken anything back for a long time.	sd	Well, I haven't either,

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, I have a friend who, if she likes something, isn't sure what size somebody might need, will buy it in every color and size and, you know, take everything back again .

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, it's a game to her,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I also, you know, usually have checked over things, you know, if it's like an appliance or something to make sure, it has the features in it that I want.

b	Right.	sd	Now we've had one lately, a Dustbuster Plus that we bought,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we've had it for a while,

ba	Of course,	sv	but, I think a lot of goods are made not to last real long

sv	and then you'll throw it away rather than have it fixed	b	Yeah.

sv	we're a wasteful society, for sure.	aa	Well, that's true,

sd	and they didn't work worth anything .	b	Uh huh.

sd	all that were taken back in ages.	b	Well, yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	you, I think there can be a lemon in anything but, I think more often than not,

b	Right.	sv	you pretty well know what you're getting ahead of time,

b	Right.	sd	I mean, we had a car once that we tried to have declared a lemon under the lemon law which is extremely difficult to do.

^2	It's hard.	sd	We never could get it declared a lemon,

ba	wow.	sd	you know, and, we went round and round with the manufacturer and everything,

qy^d	and it just pertained to that .	ny	yeah,

sv	but, But I think, too, a lot of people don't buy their warranties either because they know that when it's that old they're going to buy a new one,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and and that has saved us thousands of dollars, you know, from to mechanic to anything like that	b	Uh huh.

sv	but I think the technology is better.	aa^m	I think technology is better,

sv	About quality.	sv	I don't think necessarily that, things are being made better you know,

b	Right.	sv	everything is so automated,

b	Yeah.	sv	and I think that certainly makes a difference back from the time when somebody handcrafted something and, you know, had some pride in it.

sv	Well, people aren't willing to pay those prices very often, so, you know, for a handcrafted something,	aa	Well, yeah,

sv	So, if we get what we deserve .	b	Yeah,

b	All right.	sd	I understand that it's being proposed as a requirement, for, young people to go into public service.

sd	all young Americans, they did not specify, you know, exactly what young means.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think maybe a year would be, the longest.

aa	two years might be a little too long.	b	Yeah,

aa	That, that would be the problem. Sure would.	b	Yeah.

sv	or maybe offer them, you know, some sort of an incentive to do it. you know college credit, you know, something, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	I'm not sure what	aa	Right.

sv	a super do salary of any kind.	b	Right.

sv	but that kind of takes away from public service.	aa	That's right .

sv	I'm not sure that would be a terrifically good idea.	aa	No,

sd	I'm not either really.	sv	But, you know, if, a lot of people flat can't afford to.

aa	That's right.	b	You know,

aa	That's right.	sv	and most kids these days have gotten themselves into, financial situations, where they have to be working all the time.

sv	They need, you , young families, whatever,	sv	So, it's a really tough question.

sv	they just couldn't, you know, take off to do that.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh,	sv	and, if you put them in public service right out of high school, then that postpones their college, for a year

aa	uh huh.	sv	and that would upset a lot of people too, because they just want to get on,

sv	It would have to be a lot of, you know, thought given to something like that, I would think.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	but I think it can't be something that's mandatory.

aa^r	Yeah.	sv	it has to be something that's voluntary. You know, which is pretty much the way it is now.

sd	I'm not even really sure at this point in time, you know, what programs are out there.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and you've a choice of where you want to go.

b	Yeah.	sv	and handling it that way they could probably get some results out of it.

sv	like maybe if there was something they could do own, in their own town or city, yeah, and not have to pull up roots and, you know, go somewhere half way around the world, or something.	aa	Yeah,

aa^r	That's true too.	sv	But, they would have to be supported in some way,

qh	And, you wonder, you know, what kind of quality job would they do, you know, Just sit around for their year,	b	Right.

qh	or would they really, you know, make a contribution of some kind.	aa	Right,

sv^r	It's tough.	aa	Yeah,

sv	But, I think, there would have to be a lot more, you know, information, you know, disseminated, before you say, let's do this, you know.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	much, it would take up more time than anything

b	Yeah.	sv	They wouldn't have to spend money advertising and things like that.

aa	That's right.	sv	You go to school

b	Yeah.	sv	and you give them your speech and maybe a little slide show or something,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, I think, that they could get some results from that, because there are a lot of people who are volunteer and community minded,

b	Right.	sv	but they don't know where to go to, to do anything.

sv	It really is.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I don't really see the emphasis on things like Peace Corps, like you know, we saw back, I guess, in the Carter administration,	b	Right.

sv	that was a big thing with him.	aa	Yeah,

sv	And, as a matter of fact, I guess Kennedy may be the one that actually started the thing, or was, you know, really interested in things like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Like I say, I don't even know what programs are even ongoing now, you know.	sd	I don't either .

sv	Anyway, it's a tough question.	aa	Yeah,

fc	I enjoyed talking to you.	fc	Sure,

fc	take care.	fc	you too.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

o	Okay.	qo	So what do you guys having up there?

sv	That's a long time.	ar	Well, no,

b	Uh huh.	sd	We did an air show out at, Boone Greene, no out at, Andrews,

qy^2	Andrews?	ny	yeah.

sd	Well, for the past week or two it's been cold and wet	b	Uh huh.

sd	but before that, for most of the year, it's been hot and dry.	b	Yeah.

sd	I think for about twelve months through September the average temperature has been higher than normal each month. lots of ninety degree days during the summer.	bh	Really?

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, we have all these,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we had all this rain,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and you know, the average, first frost is like the fifteenth of November here

qy^d	if you had it early.	sd	but usually it's not until later .

sd	I think we usually have a frost in October.	b	Yeah.

sd	but the last few days it's been pouring most of the day.	qy	is it, is it flooding anywhere?

sd^e	I've not heard of any particular problems this time.	sd	we're supposed to have a chance to get some rain the next couple of days here, which will be, you know, a little bit more typical, autumn weather. But really it's strange.

b	Yes.	sv(^q)	you know, the poor trees, said what ,

sd	then it, then it became winter like, today it's sort of change to warmer to sort of more typical autumn day.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, I was up there last weekend,

sd	I think it was an especially good winter for fall colors.	qy^g	So you all actually had some color,

ny^r	yeah.	qy^d	It kind of crept in

sd^e	we did, for a time.	b	Yeah,

ny	Uh huh.	ba	Gorgeous.

b	Uh huh.	ba	Beautiful.

sd	Been that this year for the trees for the leaves.	b	Yeah.

qy	If it would came later it would be all right?	sv	like the white oaks seem to be pretty hardy.

qo	so what do you think about the school system?	sv	Well, I think they're having a lot of trouble right now.

qw	why did you choose a private school?	sd	Well, I had one that was needed to be able to be moved along at a pace a little faster than he was going to be able to be moved in public school,

qo	Then how does he like it?	sd	he's loved it.

qy^d	So he's been there all the time.	ny	Yeah,

qw	How big of a school is it?	sd	overall on campus about twelve hundred, but in the upper four grades, about four hundred and something

sv	A hundred per grade, that's a good size.	aa	Yeah,

sv	I get a little leery of the real small ones that they don't get much interaction with kids	aa	Yeah,

ba	That's good.	sd	and he was just ahead at an early age

b	Uh huh.	sd	and even in the fourth grade where they started what they called reach was still a pull out one day program.

sv	so I'm in a little different ballgame.	sv	You're just getting started.

sv	and, they have to be so careful of the things they do and say.	aa	Yeah,

sd	And, makes me a little nervous that, students don't seem to show that respect	sv	We wouldn't have thought of crossing a teacher when we were in school.

aa	no.	sv	Wouldn't have thought of it

sv	and, course, I guess the teacher used to warrant that	aa	Yeah,

^2	For other people	sv	and so then you wind up with little brats on your hands.

sv	or this, generation's just kind of changed a little bit,	sv	Well, the world changes,

b	Right.	sv	I mean they're exposed to a whole lot more things.

b	Right.	sv	And I just don't think that this doesn't always get emphasized anymore,

sd	We used to have to wear dresses	aa	Yeah,

sd	and it had to be matching	sd	And when it was skirts, it was like, get down on the floor

aa	Yes.	sd	and it's no more than so many inches above the knee .

aa	Yes.	sd	Because it was mini skirt time back there at one time.

sd	They say you kind of act how you're dressed a little bit,	aa	Yeah,

qy	does this school your son goes to, do they, require to wear a uniform	nn	No,

sd	Well, CITY SLICKERS, and STAR TREK FIVE.	qy	FIVE?

ny^r	yeah.	qy	only five?

sd	I thought I'd better see that one before I go and see six.	ar	Well, no,

qo	How about yourself?	sd	I just saw the latest one.

qw	How is it?	sd	It was fantastic.

sd	I can't wait.	b	Yeah,

qy	Now, does the old STAR TREK guys meet the new guys?	nn	No,

qy^d	it's just the old guys still.	ny	Yeah,

sd	You know, that I read in no, it was U S A TODAY	b	Uh huh.

sd	That was it.	b	Uh huh.

qw^d	I'm not sure what the difference in light years between the new generation and the old guys was.	sd	I think it's a hundred years.

qy	He was a doctor still?	ny	Uh huh.

qy^g	he didn't look too bad, did he?	nn	No,

qy	But, did they have some pretty good special effects?	na	excellent, excellent special effects.

sv	the script was bad, bad, bad .	qh	Well, you know why?

qw	Why?	sd	William Shatner wrote it.

bh	is that right?	sd	And even worse, he directed it.

sv	Leonard, Nimoy, he does a lot better.	aa	yeah,

sd	or, no, JOURNEY HOME, I think that was.	aa	Yeah,

qy	you're a real life Trekkie?	na	I think so .

sd	I wouldn't go so far as being a Trekkie,	b	Uh huh.

bh	really?	ny	Yeah,

qy	did you get to talk to him?	nn	No .

sd	It was crowded.	qy^d	Not in a crowd like that.

nn	No.	sd	It was like, want an autograph, want to stand in line for about four hours.

ba	Wow.	sd	It was a pretty crowded place.

sd	They have some good management principals in this NEW GENERATION.	b	yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	And nothing got righted until he got back up on the ship .

qy^d	so he kind of was a cowboy type, too.	ny	Uh huh

sv	but, Jean Luke does more of a, committee type of management.	aa	Uh huh,

qw	What other movies have you seen?	sd	saw THE ADDAMS FAMILY last week.

qw	how was that?	sd	It was pretty good.

qy^g	Lots of little funny spots,	ny	yeah,

qy	Did they have Thing	ny	yes,

bh	Really?	sd	And he runs around a lot.

qw^d	I've always wondered how he gets around.	sd	you know, just finger hopping.

qy^g	But he's in a box, right?	nn	No,

qy	Didn't he used to?	ng	Not really.

bk	yeah, that's, okay.	b	Yeah.

qo	How about you?	sd	Well I certainly hope so.

qy	Are most of the houses in your area three bedroom, two bath?	na	Almost a hundred percent.

aa	Yeah,	sv	don't need a closet .

sd	So like the den and the living room are all double cathedral ceilings.	b^m	cathedral ceilings.

sd	You can just spot them because the roof is so much higher.	sd	Well I hadn't thought about it in that sense, of the high roofs.

sd	Well it's like when my son goes up into the furnace area over the garage.	b	Yeah.

sd	I would say about, about ninety five percent, no I guess probably a hundred percent of them all are mostly brick, with some wood.	b	Right.

sd	But of course they have a little river going down their area too, which is kind of nice .	sv	If it's the kind of river I'm thinking of, better than, than us, you know .

sd	they've put little fountains in and such.	ba	Well that's nice.

b	Oh.	sd	So you're just as likely to wake up and discover you're in two inches of water.

qy	Do you have I mean a lot of yard around your house now, in Denton?	no	it's a third of an acre.

sv	They're built practically on top of each other.	aa	That's true.

sd	I know, I was,	sv	and while there are some advantages to that, there's less time spent outside making it look nice and taking care of things.

sv	and you've lost your back yard.	aa	Entirely.

sv	But it's great for mowing .	aa	from that aspect, you're right.

sd	and you've got plenty of room to even play a small game of baseball, but, don't do it around here.	aa	No,

sd	I hadn't thought about it that way.	sd	so moving up thirty five, I stopped when I got to Denton.

sd	It was the same problem.	qy	you all both work downtown?

nd	I got layed off by T I .	sv	well, this is a wonderful thing that you're doing here still helping them out.

sd	My ex husband was working downtown.	bk	Oh.

qy	do you do artistic painting?	ng	I do tole painting.

bh	you do?	ny	Uh huh,

qy	Do you do a lot of it?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	and I've done a little,	bk	Oh.

sv	But it takes a lot of time .	aa	It does,

qy	do you sell your projects?	ng	mostly I have just given them away as gifts.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I've done, perpetual calendars and cookie jar lids and, on and on, you know, just things like that,

qw	Where do you work at?	sd	I just work at Stop and Shop out there in Ogden

qy	Now do you ever send any of your stuff to the boutique?	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I have five children of my own,

sv	That keeps you busy.	aa	they keep me busy

qy	well, do you cut out your own projects?	ny	Yes,

qrr	or do you brush it on?	sd	I brush it on,

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	I just bought a spray gun, one of those not airless, high volume, low pressure spray guns.	b	uh huh.

sd	and that's what I bought it for.	bh	Do you?

sd	But I haven't used it yet.	qy^g	well that 'ud probably give you a smoother finish, wouldn't it?

ny	Yeah.	bk	Oh.

ny^r	Yeah.	qo	Now what type of woodworking do you do?

sd	fine furniture.	bh	 do you?

sd	That's why I bought the sprayer is to finish my projects.	b	Oh.

sd	I get so sick of making ,	qy^g	but it's hard to finish it,

sd^e	but spraying does put on a nicer finish.	ba	well, that is interesting.

qy^h	For woodworking?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	and ts about it.	bf	Boy, it sounds like you're really into it.

aa	it is.	b	Yeah,

qy^d	I don't know if you've ever heard of those.	b	Oh.

sv	But it's nice to have the right equipment.	aa	Yeah,

ny	Uh huh.	qy	Well, have you sold any of your furniture

sd	mostly I do like you do, give it away as gifts.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, Making my own furniture.	b	Yeah.

na	just in junior high	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then I just kept on through high school and then got my own equipment, kept up with that.	bf	so yours is mostly just a hobby, too, then.

aa	Yeah.	b	Oh.

aa^r	Yeah.	ba	Well, that is interesting.

qy^d	Like the shelves and,	ny	Uh huh,

qy^d	For your tole painting.	ny	Yeah .

fc	You're probably a veteran at this.	fc	Yeah.

fc	Uh huh.	fc	so I think you'll enjoy doing it.

fc	Yeah.	fc	It's fun.

fc	Where do you buy your tole painting paints at around here?	fc	you know, there's a shop in Roy that I really love.

fc	is it on nineteen hundred?	fc	Uh huh.

fc	I know where fifty six hundred south is.	fc	I don't right off.

fc	Is that Ben Franklin then ?	fc	Ben Franklin,

ad	Well, tell me about your home.	aa	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So we don't have a big yard.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's, I guess what they call a story and a half.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, it's got real high ceilings on half the house

ba	It sounds nice.	aa	It's, pretty nice.

bh	yeah?	ny	Yeah.

sv	Well, you know, these guys that gambled high lost big you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	And, I'm insulating myself from that problem.	aa	Exactly what happened to them.

sd	I'm building my own house.	ba	that's nice.

sd	And as I look out the window of my trailer, I can envision all the insulation that's going up today .	bh	really.

ny	Yeah.	qy	Are you doing it yourself?

ny	Yeah.	ba	Wow.

sd	I used to be a builder.	ba	that's nice.

sd	And I retired about five years ago and started college.	b	I see.

sv	There's still no work, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	so I did.	ba	That's great.

sd	And, see the, the state has a law that says you cannot borrow the money to build your own home.	bh	is that so?

sd	but you can't borrow the money to build your own.	ba	Well that sounds kind of dumb.

sd	Well, it's to protect the banks from guys that say yeah I want to build my own house and go out a build a spec home	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then the bank's holding the bag.	b	Yeah.

sv	as you know, anything that involves the government works half as well as it's supposed to costs three times as much. Right?	aa	That's right .

sv	Hence the savings and loan problem we have.	aa	Yeah,

sd	It's designed to be added on to.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I want to have a shop.	b	Yeah.

sd	Ten acres.	ba	Wow.

sd	He's on the other side of a hill.	b	Oh.

sd	Seriously.	ba	God.

sd	Well, in the winter time, I can see another guy	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can just make out his place, you know. I've got a thirty mile view to the east and about ten miles to the north.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, I took a lot of time in choosing this site because the house has no heating or air conditioning.	b	Uh huh.

nd	Well, it's got a very small furnace.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we'll use a wood burning stove as well.	b	Yeah.

sd	But, in the house itself, I've been working inside, you know, lo , these many months	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I have not had to use the heat.	ba	Wow.

sd	Because it's all geothermal.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, as much as I could get in it, you know. And, the east side is glass.	b	Yeah.

sd	So it's almost all glass.	ba	Wow.

sd	I mean, you know. There's no place in the house where you can stand and not see four windows.	sd	She loves lots of windows.

sd	it's on the side of a hill.	bk	I see.

sd	what I call residential level at the side that's in the hill is about four feet deep.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And the side that's on the other side is about six feet high.	bk	Oh.

sv	So I've got a pretty good grade there.	b	Yeah.

sd	And then when I put the verandas which will be twelve feet out all the way around on the north, south and east sides that will define the shop.	b	Uh huh.

na	Exactly.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, you know, I see these magazines where, you know, dig your own deck.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I kind of wish I had them, those size property and, one with a grade on it so I can build a real nice deck.

qo	So how do you feel about it?	sv	I don't see any problem with testing for random drugs.

sd	and a pretty, I don't know, I went through a, standard drug testing thing before I was brought on.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think it's important to insure the quality and, I don't know, almost the goodness of character. You know that kind of thing.	b	Yeah.

qw	Where do you work?	nd	well I'm a graduate student right now at Carnegie Mellon.

bk^r	okay.	sd	And I just came from Saint Paul. interviewing with Three M.

ba	great.	sd	And, they have a policy for, testing.

b	Right.	sv	And I guess the only drawback I can see to drug testing is in case you are on some sort of medication that might give some, sort of false positive result then there could be some sort of problem.

sv	but there's always that margin of error.	b	Yeah.

qh	Like if you're on a prescription drug of some kind, you know, what are they going to do about that .	b	Yeah .

sd	and then they list about five thousand drugs they try to test for.	b	Right.

qw	what program are you in over at Carnegie Mellon?	sd	electrical engineering.

sd	I'm a graduate student at U C F in Florida. University of Central Florida.	ba	wow .

sd	But, even for interns they, they do the whole random drug or the whole drug testing thing,	qy	They test you, before you start or before you even interview

sd	and then, they essentially give you the offer	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then at that point they'll ask you to go to a drug testing and things like that.	bk	Oh.

sd	I'm actually in a mall calling	b	Oh .

qy^g	You probably wondered,	ny	Yeah.

sd	They probably give you a chance to explain yourself and then maybe give you another chance to go through it.	b	Uh huh.

qy	are you working right now anywhere	nn	no.

bk	Okay.	sd^e	I'm just about to finish my Master's in May and, just interviewing with companies right now.

sd	A friend of mine is also a doctoral student down there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And he's doing an internship with I B M.	b	Oh.

sd	So, one of those things where we went through a kind of an identical process.	qy	do they test you right now, at work too?

sd^e	That's one thing they don't do is drug testing while you're on the job.	bk	Okay.

sd	but they don't do it.	bk	Oh .

sd	and while I don't do any drugs myself, I've seen some people who work there, you know, smoking a joint or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	they don't really do that.	ba	Wow.

qy	You think you're getting your money's worth?	ng	never .

sv	Well, that's probably the next year's agenda.	aa	Yeah.

sv	and I, I think that is probably as big a item fueling the recession as anything right now.	^h	Well, I tell you,

aa	That's right.	qw	And actually, that one, the, the taxes on gasoline don't bug me as much as, what are we, eight and a quarter percent sales tax?

aa	that's right.	sv	And every time you go to buy anything now,

sd	but I don't think it is anymore, not in Texas anyway.	sv	I got you, because people that, don't make very much money wind up spending it all.

aa^r	that's right.	b	Yeah,

sv	but, I think taxes generally are unfair	qo	what do you think of that new luxury car tax, anything over ten or thirty thousand dollars?

sv	I think, you know, generally the prices of cars have gotten out of line, which is, you know.	aa	sure.

sd	and I don't mean to be knocking,	nn	No,

sv	It's a way of increasing the population, that was one of the initial ideas of, you know, giving exemptions on kids, on federal taxes.	b	Yeah.

sd	And where you exempt things, like, one of the best things I heard on taxes to stimulate the economy, someone, brilliant deductor, probably Lloyd Bentsen, said that all, you know, if they gave back the deductions on credit cards on your federal taxes people would probably be, you know, spending more money using their credit cards.	b	Right.

sv	but if you look on all interest things, not just credit cards, but on your cars and, you know, any kind of interest that you're paying, from a personal point of view, that might make certain sense in stimulating consumer purchasers.	aa	Sure.

sv	They quit buying it.	qo	Well, what about the taxes on cigarettes?

sd	I just sometimes wonder if our money is being used in the best way.	b	Right.

sv	that's, I think is just being thrown away.	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	But, somebody was telling me the other day that they heard some senator say that what we're paying, it's not that we mind paying taxes, it's that we're paying too much for a lousy government.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I, I tend to agree with that .

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm not really into what they're doing per se,

b	Yeah.	sv	and I think there's just too many levels of bureaucracy.

sv	and any time there is a budget cut or crunches, it's always the small guy that gets hurt.	b	Right.

sd	and and sometimes we're running around there.	b	Right.

sd	I really don't know what they do.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	I sometimes wonder, are they really doing anything,	aa	Right,

b	Yeah.	sv	I mean, right now we're getting taxed probably around thirty five percent, or more.

sv	Well, they got so many hidden taxes, that it's really hard to figure out how much you are paying, because, go to a grocery store, something like that, and you're paying a little tax here	b	Right.

sv	but there's probably at least about twenty five to thirty cents of different taxes on our gas.	b	Right.

sv	And you don't realize,	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	So. I mean, they're hitting us up,

sv	and that just raises your taxes, you know, they just get it a different way	b	Right.

sd	so, I mean, to me, it did, raise my taxes.	b	Right,

qo	What type of lawn and garden work do you do?	nd	Well, I do it all .

qy	Do you have a garden?	ny	yes.

sd	I just have a small plot it's like ten feet by five feet.	b	Yeah.

b	I see.	sd	It's a long skinny one

sd	it's all the dirt I have, left in my backyard .	b	I see.

sv	It's cheap entertainment.	aa	Right.

aa	uh huh.	sv	And especially when the weather's not too hot or, not raining or whatever,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, sometimes I, I said, I sometimes I wish I had more space you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I grow a lot of things, a lot of food.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And sometimes I want to plant something, there's not enough room to plant. Some of those things like, you know, the things that vine like, cucumbers, or, squash or something, like that. Plant one of those

sv	Takes a lot of room.	sv	and it takes up your whole space .

sd	my goodness, what a mistake that was.	b	Yeah.

sv	it just takes up, you know, like you say, a lot of your garden area.	aa	Right.

sd	we just do, tomatoes, bell peppers, radishes and turnips, I mean, not turnips, carrots, beets and things like that.	^2	The basics.

sd	Well, she just plants a few for herself.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	I got a few peas out my garden a couple of days ago.

bh	Did you really?	sd	The first one, they started them indoors this time.

sd	we, just wait until, you know, the weather warm enough to stick it in the ground.	b	Yeah.

sv^e	you can get a head start on it.	sv	But, sure is a heck of a lot of work.

aa	I guess it, would,	sv	Because you got to, watch them every day, and keep them watered

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I don't think I'll do it again .

sv	Well it will make them taste better I'm sure.	b	yeah.

^2	You got to inspect it,	sd	and the kids want to swing,

b	Sure.	sd	and I push them on swing.

b	Sure.	sd	And I mow my own lawn.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I don't have a sprinkler system.

sd	and boy, it is really nice,	b	Oh.

sv	it sure beats dragging hoses around.	aa	Yeah,

sd	It's really nice.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she moves it around ever other day.

sd	I enjoy having a nice looking yard,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I just don't enjoy the work, that it takes to get it done.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I had a lawn service to do my yard for me during the real hot summer months, you know, until I retired	b	Uh huh.

sd	for the last couple of years I've done it myself.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, they want too much money.

aa	it is.	b	Yeah.

sv	Of course, the chemicals themselves when you buy them, they're expensive too.	aa	Right.

sd	and I screw around and don't do it or wait too long or something.	b	Right

aa	That's right.	sv	and all of a sudden you've got to do something else.

sd	I'm kind of bad about that.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I really don , you know, don't, want to spend the money for it.	sv	Well, if you, enjoy it too, you know, you can get out in the morning before it gets hot and, and do it and stuff, when you only have to,

sd	I'm not limited to, just mowing it on Saturday morning, you know,	b	Right.

sd	I can do it on most any day of the week.	sv	When the days start getting a little longer, you know, I can start doing it in the evening after work.

b	Yeah.	sd	when they rollback an hour.

qy	Is it this weekend?	no	I don't know.

sv	It's pretty soon.	sd	I really don't know.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, I think it's coming up here soon.

aa	I believe it is too.	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't use, I seldom use anything harsher than seven dust, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but then, again, I don't want the bugs eating it upping either.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	One year I didn't put anything on

b	Uh huh.	sd	Next year I was planting some broccoli and some of those, they're called cabbage, cabbage loppers, or whatever.

b	Uh huh.	sd	They were just covered with them,

b	Yeah.	sd	I didn't go out there for about three days, you know, and I went out there one day and the plant was nothing left but a stem,

aa	That's right.	sd	they devoured it that quickly.

sv	They really go through it,	sv	And, they, have you, a good appetite .

b	Yeah.	sd	I picked off like twenty of them

sv	You know cutworms will do the same thing to your tomato vines too.	aa	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I've been watching them every day

sd	so I got four pieces of two by twelve and joined them together and just made a box. And put in a whole bunch like eight hundred pounds of topsoil and manure	b	Right.

sd	and, you know, various other things, Raised it up.	sv	Well, the good stuff.

sv	at least they'll have a hard time crawling up the thing.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I had sandy loam hauled in.

b	Uh huh.	sd	On my driveway, I guess, that's what they do

b	Right.	sv	But, you know, you can improve your own soil there

b	Uh huh.	sv	but the Texas soil isn't the greatest, gardening soil.

sv	You, really do.	b	Right.

sd	I just turned it all up and mixed it all up together with,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I did it by hand,	sv	Small enough,

ny	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	It wasn't too much of a job, really.	b	Yeah.

sv	It would be handy.	sd	And it weighs twenty pounds or, something like that.

b	Yeah.	sd	My neighbor across the street has one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I see him out there,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I guess it has a thatcher attachment to it.

sv	It might be handy,	aa	Yeah.

sd	I've never seen one.	sd	I have a friend who has one

b	yeah.	sd	and it's a fairly large one to, heave it up into the back of the van, bring it home and, check it back and just grab it, you know, if I, just go to my garage and grab it.

ba	That would be neat,	ba	That would be nice.

sd	We've had a garden, gosh, for years and years and years, of some size, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I can't remember a year when we didn't have one of some kind.	qw	What have you got growing right now?

sd	you know tomatoes that are starting to bloom	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I've got some radishes up,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and as a matter of fact, I've already done a second row of radishes.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, the green onions are coming along.	bk	Okay,

fa	excuse me.	qo	what kind of onions do you grow?

sd^e	for the first time we planted them this year.	sv	they are the best.

sd	and I couldn't find a nursery that had any of them left.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, my wife does, a small herb garden on the side.	b	I see.

sd	They're up and doing fine.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sv	and, we really missed them when they were gone, because the ones from the grocery store just can't, compare.

sv	That's kind of a, let down.	sd	She made these onion rings that were so good,

ba	I bet,	sv	and, and, you don't realize how many dishes you put onions in, that it's an ingredient,

aa	we sure do.	sd	and it was just like everything you put it into tasted so much better.

sv	One nice thing with onions and bell peppers at least you can chop them and freeze them if you have, you know, too many.	b	Right.

sd	We did that too,	sd	And some we do green

sv	Makes, makes a colorful salad too.	aa	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you're making me hungry here.

sd	We've tried it, before	b	Oh.

sd^e	we haven't had much luck with it we're going to try it again this year.	b	Yellow peppers,

sd	They have some little buds on them hopefully they'll do something.	b	Yeah.

sd	We enjoy fooling around with it.	^h	Just let me see what I got,

sd	we've got some beets,	sd	and I planted potatoes too.

sd	We used to do it at home when I was a kid, had a huge garden.	b	the potato,

b	Uh huh.	sv	they do.

aa	yeah, it does take some space.	sd	Some beet, potatoes

b	Yeah.	sd	and I've got some tomatoes still growing, in containers,

b	I see.	sd	I got to wait for a place to, to free up.

b	Uh huh.	sd	our kids love pickles

ba	That will be neat,	sd	We've got some good, Hybrid Burpee pickler cucumbers

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we're going to try to see if we can pickle our own

sv	they're expensive.	aa	I know it.

sd	I really, don't know.	aa	I guess.

ba	That will be interesting.	sd	An experiment.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'd like to you know, just try something new, every year that, I haven't tried before

sd^e	I have a daughter.	bh	Do you.

ny	Yeah.	qw	How old is she?

sd	She's only about, a little less than two years old.	qy^d	I guess you have not reached the stage where you need to, promote a college or anything,

nn	No.	sd	I've got one that's seven and one that's three,

b	Yeah .	qy	So, is there, are you planning to, like, encourage your children to go to a particular school?

sv	I think that's really a decision that,	qy^d	That you are going to let them make.

nd	well, help them make in terms of, you know, what they are wanting to do.	b	Right.

sv	You know, that's a big influence, I think and, You know not only what you can afford, but what's going to be best for them in terms of what their career goals are.	aa	Yeah,

sv	So, you know, you need to go to a school that handles whatever it is you want to do.	aa	Yeah.

sd	University of Mississippi.	bk	Oh.

sd	well, well, it was within the state.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But it was not necessarily local, it was,	b	Yeah.

qy	What's the criterion for choosing to go there?	ny	Yeah.

sd	well, at the time, I was, thinking of going pre med	b	Uh huh.

sd	and in the state, they had the best pre med curriculum for the, state institutions.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was choice between there and, a private college that, was a bit more expensive.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I ended up going there although it was quite a drive away for me.	b	Yeah.

sd	I enjoyed it.	qy	So did you commute everyday then

nn	No.	bk	okay.

sd^e	it was a six hour drive.	bk	okay,

sd	it was like another world.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and at that age it's kind of difficult sometimes.	b	Yeah.

sv	Especially, if you have not been away a lot that extended .	b	Yeah.

ny	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, you know, I guess, you know, when you have to do it that way, it makes your choices a lot easier

sd	that's like, you know, when I went on to get my masters you know, it was where I was at the time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, I was not going to try to pick and go somewhere else because I was pretty much settled	b	Right,

sv	so when you are first going to school you kind of have the luxury of being able to have some latitude in choosing the place to go.	aa	Exactly.

sd	the computer science center.	qw	where is that at?

sd	north building.	bk	I see.

sd	about three years.	qy	Did you work somewhere else,

sd	actually, I mean I came straight from school to here.	bk	I see.

sd	So, cause this was the first real job after getting my degree.	b	Uh huh.

sd	After my masters.	bk	I see.

sd	My undergraduate degree was not in what my masters was.	b	I see.

sd	So I made a career change basically.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I like the school where I went.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, and I would not hesitate at all to encourage her to go there there if she wanted to.	b	Right.

sd	Or the school where I got my masters at, which was a different school.	b	Right.

sd	And, I liked it almost as well.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, you know, that, I'm not going to hold them to that just because I went there.	b	Right.

sv	I, you know, think that's	b	Yeah.

sd	If they want to, that's fine, but otherwise not. Although I would get quite a break on, on tuition .	b	Yeah.

sd^e	because they, allow for, tuition, break for out of state students who children of alumnae.	sd	I didn't know that.

sd	Well certain schools do it.	b	Yeah.

sd	I was involved in some, alumnae recruiting, here in town, recently, well last year .	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it was kind of fun, because you are to, trying to get people interested in your school, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sd	this was a college night at a high school in Richardson.	b	Uh huh.

sv	There were a hundred schools, probably there all competing for the same kids.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's kind of interesting to, to talk up, you know, your, school	aa	Yeah,

sd	And, I was surprised by the number of kids that came by and had heard of, you know, our school. and were interested in it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	situations like that, you don't realize, you know, until you start thinking about it, the kinds of advantages you school may have over others.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That worked out so well.	b	Yeah.

sd	but, it seemed like there were quite a few kids that were definitely interested in going there.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But her, her daughter was, a, ma , dru , a majorette or something. You know, a baton twirler or something	b	Uh huh.

sd	She had cards printed up, actually describing, you know, business cards describing her daughter's, you know, she had won several different twirling awards, and all this,	b	really.

sv	I think some parents go a little bit overboard.	aa	Yeah

b	Yes.	sv	Well you know I think Richardson is probably you know one of the places that would definitely

sd	and then they just meet at, like, a park or something to have like a short, or a small, dinner type thing.	ba	Well, that sounds great, Ellen.

sd	and we were living in Utah at the time.	bk	okay.

sd	and each time they had a reunion they'd assign a different person to be in charge of notifying everybody.	b	okay,

sd	and that person can call, you know, beforehand and just make sure everyone knows, too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then they just sort of do like a little program or, you know, something like that so that everyone's sort of involved.	b	Yeah.

sd	and we're all there	sv	Southern California's still pretty large.

sd	I mean everyone's, you know mostly not farther than an hour away.	b	I see.

b	Uh huh.	sd	years ago there was a big dispute on my dad's side

ba	Wow.	sd	but, anyway, my mother's side we had our first real reunion that I've ever gone to last summer

sd	and so everyone has to update their little books or whatever.	qy	Well, have have you, do you have an interest in genealogy?

na	I do, but not very much compared to my mother in law.	qy^d	Not a passion,

qy	Is it your grandma's own sibling	sd	My grandmother's, sister who would be somewhere in West Virginia.

bk	I see.	sv	I'm quite a bit, I'm probably a lot older than you are.

qy^d	Well, maybe, they just moved away and then sort of lost contact.	no	I don't know.

qy	Have you?	na	actually I've, I've been in them but, just visiting

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she's lived with us for like five years.

sd	like twenty four hours a day someone, has to be, Well, there's someone in my fiancee's family.	b	Yeah.

sd	and all the other children are working or whatever.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But she goes in the senior citizen center.	bh	really?

sd	but it's only for like two or three hours at a time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you know that a lot of the things he thought he would do when he retired he's not able to do now.	b	Right.

sd	But he refuses to consider any other,	qy	To put her in a rest home?

qy	and is that how your parents feel	nd	well, see it's more my grandma that feels that way.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She says that when her husband died that my uncle had said that he would never put her in a rest home.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and my mom has to take care of her pretty much

sd	and, than he thought it would be.	qw	When he retired?

sd	and, he's the one because he's the one that isn't going to work every day and that she moved in with when she needed to move in with someone.	b	Yeah,

ba	well, that's great.	sd	So that, that works out good.

sd	so I can't say much.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so if my parents do need to live with someone, it will probably be with me because all my brothers and sisters will be having teenagers around and everything to care for. You know,	bh	Really?

sd	We feel like, it's our responsibility,	b	Uh huh.

sd	But I wonder how much, you know, if one of us is going to have to quit work someday or retire early or something.	b	Uh huh.

sv	This country kind of takes the worst care of the elderly of any other country.	bh	You think?

sv	and in this country nobody really, Yeah, nobody really pays attention	sv	They're seen as senile .

sv	but you know, it's just funny	b	Right.

sv	and everything really isn't that much for elderly people to live on.	b	Uh huh.

sv	You know, even if they're in good health it's incredible.	b	Right.

sv	they don't get special treatment and maybe they should, you know	b	Uh huh.

qw	How old are you?	sd	I'm twenty.

qy^d	So yeah, and it must be rough for you too to see your grandmother.	ny	Yeah,

sd	and then I'll respond.	aa	All right.

b	Yeah.	sd	so, I've been very guilty about not making the effort to take things where they belong.

qw	Well, how long have you been here?	sd	Well, we've been here since January,

b	Yeah.	sv	so, I guess we're old timers compared to some people.

sv	You need to get into the the system a little more and know where to take things.	b	Right.

sd	and we didn't recycle at all before we came	b	Uh huh.

sd	we save most of our aluminum cans and glass and newspaper right now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	in behind Walmart they have bins	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we usually save up our cans and change them in for money.	qw	Well, where do you do that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I didn't know where to take them.

sv	and, Now they aren't worth much right now,	bk	Oh.

sv	but it's better than nothing ,	b	Yeah.

sd	and hopefully we'll be getting them in the month of October.	b	Yeah,

sd	but the trucks that were supposed to do it, there's been some problems with from what I've read in, you know, the mail that we get	b	Oh.

sd	I get tired of newspaper littering the garage .	b	Yeah,

sv	I feel guilty we don't recycle our milk containers because they seem like a big waste.	sv	Well, yeah they, they're a lot of bulk, anyway

b	Yeah	b^r	yeah.

sd	they fill up the whole kitchen garbage can	b	Right.

sd	and I think that's when I'll start doing the plastic, too.	b	Yeah,

sd	I've gotten used to washing you know, the, salad dressing bottles and things like that,	b	Right.

sv	but we can do our part take an extra minute or two.	b	Yeah.

sd	when we first were here, it was like we'd take maybe a grocery sack full or maybe two grocery sacks full,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it would be like two dollars but since last time we've gotten more like a dollar.	b	Yeah.

aa	Yeah	b^m	Yeah,

sv	I think, more people are are recycling.	b	Right.

sd	and whatever pop we drink, we used to take the boys out for a bike ride, and pick up the litter, you know, the cans	b	Uh huh.

sd	but we haven't done that for a long time	b	Yeah.

sd	and , you do get to stop once in a while when there is a can to rest ,	b	Oh.

sv	and that will spur you on,	aa	Right,

sv	All right, well, it sounds like we're doing our part and at least starting, Trying	^2	Thinking about it, anyway .

sv	that's all you can do	b	Yeah,

sd(^q)^t	if it's been long enough, five minutes is when they cut in and say, we don't have any more room for recording .	qy^g	You can't chat all day, .

fc	So we can say good bye now.	fc	Okay.

fc	and maybe we'll get on line again.	fc	Okay.

fc	Thanks, Sherry.	fc	Bye bye.

sd	the way I work, the way I dress for work is, this year, nineteen ninety one has been really suit and tie,	b	Uh huh.

sd	or I shouldn't say suit, but coat and tie every day.	b	Uh huh.

sd	a year ago, I changed jobs from being a researcher to doing marketing for the research group.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I guess it's a different set of standards, I guess.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, pretty much it's a white shirt and slacks and shoes and a coat.	b	Uh huh.

qo	How do you dress?	^h	Well, I'm a drafter,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And that's pretty much the norm for me.

b	I understand.	sd(^q)	They ask me, you know, what are you doing in a dress

b	Right.	^q	Ran out of jeans .

qy	So, does it change?	nn	No.

b^m	no.	nn^m	No,

qy	or, I guess, do you have things like presentations to do or anything like that?	nn	No,

sd	So, back in my old job, up until through nineteen eighty I would usually wear blue jeans and pullover shirts and the like,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, probably once a month or so, there was some reason that I would have to put on a suit. For a customer presentation or something.	b	Yeah.

b	I understand.	sd	I have to go to a business meeting once a month with him,

sv	it seems like T I is pretty cut and dried with like, two or three levels.	b	Uh huh.

sv	there's the upper management that always wears gray suits. And the people that don't,	b	Uh huh.

sd	if you, if I want to say don't have power or don't have authority or whatever like I used to be in that research	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	and I guess you are.	ny	Uh huh.

sv	and then there's kind of the branch manager level or marketing people that kind of do that middle thing.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But there's not much,	sv	middle of the road.

sv	It's nice that there's not a requirement for it.	aa	Uh huh,

sv	I guess you see those once in a while.	sd	And you know they have the no shorts deal,

aa	Sure.	sv	But, You know, I guess that's one of the things you got to put up with when you don't have a dress code.

sd	I'm not even sure what they are.	sv	Supposedly and backless things

aa	all right.	sd	but, I've seen those, too,

sv	but, I think we, we did it .	b	yeah.

qy^d	and your name was Lisa.	na^m	Lisa.

ba	Great.	qy	Are you the Expressway sites?

sd^e	and I work in the north building.	bk	okay.

ft	well, thank you.	ft^m	Thank you.

fc	good day.	fc	Uh huh,

qw	the question was, what kind of books do you read for entertainment, I guess,	sd	I just read for escape.

ba	With two little kids I can understand that.	b	Yes.

qw	what kind of,	sd	Well, just, I just finished one last night. A great book.

b	Oh.	sd	Strange book. Beautifully written.

b	Uh huh.	sd^r	Just beautifully written.

qy	By, somebody who was there	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, he considered himself to be, you know, a true Vietnam soldier.

ba	I can imagine.	b	Yeah.

sd	I read an awful lot of, periodicals and, you know, almost what you call reference books.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I'm embarrassed to say the last, you know, honest to gosh, cover to cover book that I read, I cannot, right offhand, I tried to read, one of the Michener, LONE STAR or the TEXAS HISTORY BOOK.	sd	I have never been able to make it through any of Michener's work.

sv	It does tend to,	qy	are you a Civil War buff at all?

ny^r	yeah .	sd	Because I finished one,

b	Yeah.	sd	and the novel didn't do that much for me.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, I then read, was it BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think it was BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM.

b^m	BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM .	sd	It's kind of like a historical compendium, of the Civil War,

b	Yeah.	sd	and it's not a story of the Civil War,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And it's fascinating because I had always, you know, been raised on this, you know, Proclamation with the Civil War.

qy^g	There was a lot more to it than that, weren't there?	na^m	There was a lot more to it than that.

sv	well, it was a political move.	b	yeah.

sv	All the other areas which I think at that time would have included West Virginia and, may have been Kentucky, a few states, you know, that were not part of the South but still had slaves.	b	Uh huh.

sv	They didn't emancipate them.	qh	Well, you know what else really surprised me, now

sd	I've got the same problem .	b	yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	My husband is always, you know, talked about Texas being a, rebel state.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, my God, all this Civil War pride.

qy^g	isn't much there, was there?	sv	They might as well have not even been there.

b	Right.	sv	You know, they weren't a state

sv	and they had an interesting time there.	aa	I'll bet they did.

sv	but you know, just he and a handful of guys managed to hold off the whole Union navy for a while from coming up the Sabine River which was of no consequence but still is an interesting story.	qh	Well, you know, why they actually held them off?

am	That , could be it.	ad	Now, you didn't hear me say that.

sd	but it was the last, organized battle between the two units was in Texas,	b	Yeah.

sv	Texas participation in the Civil War was, minor at,	ba	Boy,

aa	Yeah.	sv	I mean, my god, they fought and won the whole thing.

sd	well, my wife's from Galveston,	b	Oh.

sd	Well, I'm from New Mexico	ba	That's a beautiful state.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and besides, you know, if corn didn't grow there, it didn't matter.

sv	It sounds like Iowa or something.	sd	Iowa and Nebraska.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yep.

b	Uh huh.	qh	or, God knows what.

sd	well, my sister's living in Illinois right now,	sv	Well then, she's going to come out well rounded.

b	Yeah.	sd	But outside of those kind of things, you know, the other thing that I've really gotten into reading,

sd	I used to read a lot more than I do now.	sd	Well, I've gone to the point where my husband travels, I get out like, you know, two or three books.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm trying to think of, Isaac Asimov, ROBOT series.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, I think I've read all four of them

b	Uh huh.	sd	In the last six weeks he's been on the road a lot.

sd	And, the SHADOW OF BLOOMING GROVE and TWO THOUSAND AND TEN and GRANT TAKES COMMAND and THE WAR IN THE YEAR , SPACE that was the one I was trying to wade through was SPACE, James Michener. Didn't get very far on that.	sd	You know, I think I read HAWAII, when I was about ten years old

b	Yeah.	sv	Which is about the developmental level that, you know, you need to be at to read those things,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I got about like a hundred pages through it and realized I had like a thousand more,

sv	the books are kind of, imposing to say the least.	b	Yeah.

sv	I don't think.	aa	No.

sd	And there's THE HISTORY OF YOAKUM COUNTY, TEXAS there.	qy	Is that a big, thick book?

sd^e	yeah, and I've got a HISTORY OF KINGSLEY, IOWA	qw	what the hell for?

sd	Well, because that's where my folks all came from.	bk	okay.

sd	That was part of that trilogy that, Bruce Canton did.	h	I don't know.

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know if I'd call it science fiction or fantasy.

sv	they just happen to put them in a futuristic setting, you know,	sd	Well, I loved that novel.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I read the whole damn book while I was home hauling out, you know, like ten gallon buckets of water and waiting for the roof to collapse and, reading about these guys wearing their little free man still suits

b	you're reading DUNE.	sd	and, I think that's probably my favorite of any piece of science fiction that I've ever read.

qy^g	That was a movie too, wasn't it?	na	And the movie was awful.

bh	Was it?	ny	yes,

qy^g	I guess the guy that's on the new STAR TREK series was in that thing, .	no	I don't know,

bh	really? .	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I was real disappointed in that.

ny	yeah .	aa	That's true.

sd^e	Somebody who, saw the movie here the other day told me it was the most terrifying thing they'd ever seen,	bk	Oh.

sd	they didn't sleep all night.	sd	Well, see I am debating whether or not I want to go see the movie after having read the book.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean the book is chilling.

b	Yeah,	sd	Just chilling.

sd^e	I don't have the foggiest notion what it's about,	sd	Then I won't tell you.

b	yeah .	sd	It's just that if you're ever really want to just be scared out of your wits,

qy^d	that's the one.	na^m	That's the one.

qy	Even better than JAWS and some of that?	ny	Yes,

qy^g	a Freddy Kruger type,	nn	No,

b	yeah.	b^m	yeah,

qo	first, I need to know, how do you feel about sending, an elderly, family member to a nursing home?	sv	Well, of course, you know, it's one of the last few things in the world you'd ever want to do, you know. Unless it's just, you know, really, you know, and, you know, for their own good.

aa	Yeah.	sd	I'd be very very careful you know, checking them out.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, I was fortunate in that

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I was very comfortable, you know, in doing it when it got to the point that we had to do it.

b	Yeah.	sd	We were not really happy with, nursing home that we finally had.

b	Yeah.	sd	Fortunately, she only had to stay a few weeks

b	Yeah.	qh	You know, is there something else we could have done, you know, in checking out all the places that, might be available.

sd	and, finally, she had Parkinson's disease,	b	Oh.

sd	and it got so much that she could not take care of her house.	b	Right.

sd	and, that was even harder actually.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it was very disturbing for her because she had been so used to traveling.	b	Yes.

sd	I mean, she had, she had children all across the United States	b	Uh huh

sd	and, you know, she spent nine months out of the year just visiting her children.	b	Right.

sd	And, that was pretty heart rending for her.	ba	I can imagine.

sd(^q)	I think when she finally came to the realization that, you know, no, I cannot take care of myself.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, for somebody who you know, for most of their life has, not just merely had a farm but had ten children had a farm, ran everything because her husband was away in the coal mines.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, you know, facing that situation, it's quite a dilemma.	aa	Yes.

sd	probably one of the biggest decisions I think that was very strengthening for our family was rather than have one child make that decision than just delegate it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they actually had a conference.	ba	That's great.

sd	And, I mean, it was probably one of the most strengthening things for our family, getting down together and doing that.	aa	That's right.

sd	and just the children were involved in the decision, because it involved just them. you know, making that decision and then finding a place	b	Right.

sd	and everybody had duties to perform.	b	Uh huh.

sd	You know, whether it was just, you know, giving money or whether it was actually taking part in a lot, of the decision making, you know, like finding a proper nursing home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, well, they had, well, they had, they had seen it coming.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, I, I, I har , I, I truly wish that if something like that were to happen that my children would do something like, that for me.	b	Uh huh.

aa^r	Yeah.	sv	And, it's usually not a very smooth, smooth thing.

b	Yeah.	sd	I was lucky too that I only have one brother.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, fortunately, we agreed, you know, on exactly, you know, what we thought should be done.

b	Yeah.	sd	We were lucky in one respect in that after she had her stroke she wasn't you know, really much aware of what was going on.

b	Uh huh.	sd	That nursing home life would not have been, you know, anything of her choosing,

sd	and her daughter came and visited her	b	Uh huh.

sd	at least her daughter, came and visited her and also her several grandchildren, came and visited her every day.	b	Uh huh.

sv	it was more of a relief for her.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, I, I di , I don't know how I would deal if one of my parents came with Alzheimer's. or something like, that which is far more devastating.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I, I think that what one thing that they were concerned probably was the fact it wasn't necessarily, you know, like the quantity of care but the quality of, care.	b	Uh huh.

sd	That the people that worked there were very were very interested that, to make it as close a home environment, as possible.	b	Right.

qh	how close is it to a home environment.	aa	Yes.

sv	that's probably the major question.	sv	I think that great strides are being made nowadays in caring for the elderly, you know, in a, in a whole lot of areas.

b	Yeah.	sv	Just people are, of course, populations getting older.

sv	You know it's interesting that the population of the United States is changing because, you know, now that so many more minorities, where they have had extended families for such a long time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	matter of fact in the United States we used to have extended families.	b	Uh huh,

sv	But, I guess as we become more industrialized and more, you know, less in a rural situation we don't, we, we, we choose not to deal with the, extended family because we feel it's kind of cumbersome, when in reality it makes things much much easier.	b	Yes,

sv	I, I think that perhaps the extended family, you know, that it maybe one of the solutions to a lot of things even child care.	b	Yes.

sv	You know I mean, of course there comes other issues, you know, whether or not any of the grandparents whether we feel like they're going to be a good caretaker for our children.	b	Yes,

sd	I mean they raised us after all.	aa	Yeah.

sv	and I, I kind of see that, you know, perhaps, you know, we may need to like get close to the family environment and and get down to the values of, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sv	money seems to be too big of an issue. With, with, with, with what's going on today	aa	yeah.

sv	and I think, I think that that may be, you know, perhaps if we put money on the back burner that may choose to alleviate a lot of the problem.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean, I mean we may not have as high a standard of living	b	Uh huh.

sv	but actually have a truer standard of living.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	aa	I think your right.

fc	Okay.	fc	Yeah.

fc	All right.	fc	Take care.

fc	Hey.	fc	Bye bye.

sv	 I think it's health care.	b	Right.

sv	I think everybody would say that.	sv	and if you try to get it outside of your corporation, you're going to pay an arm and a leg.

sv	belonging to a health group is probably the most important protection you can have after you,	b	Right.

sv	sometimes I think it's more important than salary.	qy	do you also get dental?

sv	but, since I have three boys, it can turn out to be important.	aa	I know.

sv	in a given year, dental expenses can really kill you.	sd	Now my husband is with, Northwest Airlines

aa	Right.	sd	And I don't know how people that don't have it can afford it.

aa	Right.	sv	Or maybe they don't .

sv	and then, if the cleaning doesn't get you, the orthodony will.	aa	That's right .

sv	or, pretax savings was another thing that I think is a a great, a great benefit .	b	Uh huh.

sv	And I think it's really something that the government ought to encourage more because, there are all these complaints about how we're not a saving country and where the average savings rate is something like four percent in this country and fifteen percent in, Germany and Japan. ,	b	Right.

sv	and if the government goes along by not taxing it when you put it aside you can really build up, the savings that you wouldn't otherwise do	b	Right.

qy	Leave?	ny	Yeah.

sv	They may have, just plain parental leave, which either one can take.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I know their maternity leave is on the order of six weeks which I think is too short.	aa	I do too.

sv	I really think that we need to get into the mold where we talk about years rather than months or weeks.	sv	I think it's just a crying shame, for a mother to have to go back to work at six weeks.

aa	Right,	sv	She isn't recovered .

sv	There ought to be, some compromise where, where the person would be guaranteed a, career type position but not necessarily a continuation of exactly the same position in exchange for a longer period of time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and yet anybody whose gotten far enough to get a good salary is really reluctant to give that up.	aa	sure.

sd	I think you've put your finger on the one benefit that I would most like to see, changed . the, parental leave.	sv	Well, I think they're com , they've come a long way. at least some companies. Some of them, my girlfriend, in particular, that works for a rental car agency

b	Right.	sv	and, as manager they have a very, very poor leave policy

sv	There's no other way. I mean unless they're part of some extended family which is unlikely.	aa	That's right.

sv	you shouldn't have to make it.	b	Uh huh.

aa	you're right.	sd	One of the benefits we get, of course, is travel .

sd	would I like to have that.	sd	It's wonderful .

b	Yeah.	sv	The only trouble is that you can afford to go anywhere

sd	I'll take care of that .	aa	That's right.

qo	What's your opinion?	sv	Well, it's kind of a broad subject,

sv	When it comes to government spending, there are so many studies done that don't mean anything	b	Yeah.

sv	but we'll spend hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of dollars on.	b	Yeah.

sv	but, it could be put to more practical use.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and I read, you know, how our politicians voted each week in the paper.	b	Yeah.

sv	and what they ran on in platform don't necessarily come true in their voting in the senate or Congress, whatever.	b	Uh huh.

qw	what state do you live in?	sd	Texas.

qo	What do you think about Robin Hood?	sd	Well , I work for school district

qw	What school district do you work for?	sd	Richardson.

sd	I work for Plano.	b	Oh.

sv	So, we're comparable.	aa	Yeah.

sd	As a matter of fact, I just paid my Richardson taxes because I live in Richardson and supplemented the Robin Hoods very thoroughly, I think.	b	Yeah,

aa	Yes.	sv	And it's not going to get any better.

sd	I remember there was about five years ago.	b	Yeah.

b	Yes.	sv	I think living in Richardson, we're kind of spoiled because I think we come closer to getting our money's worth as far as the city is concerned, I think than probably any city in the country.

qy	well, did you read in the Dallas paper where they increased the administrators' pay by thirty three percent after they laid off all those teachers.	bh	Is that incredible?

sd	But, you know, I'm not going to complain because Plano we all got a pay raise this year.	b	Yeah.

qy^d	You all got a pay raise this year.	ny	Yeah.

qy	Is that correct?	na	Well, yeah, I think the teachers did,

bk	Okay .	sd	my pay doesn't change.

qy	Are you on the early retirement?	ny	Yes.

qy	are you enjoying it?	ny	Yes,

sd	I say Arlington, Texas now because I talked one night to somebody in Arlington, Virginia.	ba	my,

qy	do they have one?	ny	Yes,

sd	Well, I learned something already .	b	Yeah.

qw	How much time do you spend with your children?	sd	Very little. Because they're grown.

br	What?	sd^r	They're grown and gone.

qy	So you do spend less time then?	ny	Yeah

qy	Are they married or what?	ny	yes,

sv	boy, you have a lot of kids.	aa	Yeah,

qy^g	You you shouldn't be lonesome on a holiday,	sd	Because I came with a split family

qy^d	They have to see their other parent, I guess too.	ny	Yeah

ba	I know.	qh	and you know what?

qw	What?	sd	Sometimes that's okay.

sd	That's what my mother said one time.	b	You know, right,

sv	and if they force them to, you know that's not good either.	b	Yeah.

qy	Well, do they all live in the area?	na	of the six, we've got four around here.

ba	wow.	sd	you know, well, we're talking like north Texas.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then, one is in Montpe , Mont , Montpelier Montpelier, Vermont

ba	Golly.	sd	and the other one is in Everett, Washington.

qw	How did they end up so far away?	sd	Well, that's, the, my little pair. And my second marriage.

qy	Those are the youngest ones?	ny	Yeah,

sv	Boy, those are a long way.	sd	And, Well, they wanted to go,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and the, the, third daughter fell in love with, Vermont.

bf	So they wanted to make their homes there.	aa	Yeah,

qy	are those two married?	nn	No.

qr	They, just working up there or going to school or what?	^h	Well, let's see,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I wish to God he would go back.

sv	they do. Especially if they're meant to, I think.	b	Yeah.

sv	so it's never too late.	b	Uh huh.

sv	Especially in some of these schools around here, I think they have about twenty percent older students.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I've seen some people that are really quite up there you know they look like in their very late sixties	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and I say that's great, why not, you know.	ba	my,

aa	No.	sv	but, we are seasoned minds.

sv	you're really ready to learn finally.	aa	Yes,

sd	I mean, I don't know why I even went to college when I was seventeen.	b	Yeah,

sv	It was a complete waste of money.	aa	Yeah,

aa	Right	sv	And we don't try to burn the candle at both ends and in the middle altogether.

sv	We don't go out drinking beer till three and try to go to class in the morning .	aa	At seven,

sv	yeah, we're past that age .	aa	Yes,

sv	We know what we can do .	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	And so forgot what the second question,

qy	and do we approve what other, families do.	sv	Well, the trends in the families were to spread apart, do your own thing.

aa	That's right.	sd	But I have seen lately, yes, I am seeing, I'm seeing a change that, whoops, government can't do it,

sd	I was going to say the same thing.	sv	schools are not able to

b	Uh huh.	sv	and between a person's religion, their faith in their maker you know, whether you're Christian or Jewish or whatever,

qy^g	Are going to have to solve some of the problem,	sv	those are the two that, that have the wherewithal

b	Uh huh.	sv	So when another group of, people step in, try to do it, they're tromping on our territory, so to speak,

b	Oh.	sd	I firmly believe that,

b	Yeah.	qy^d	Well, considering you moved here from California, I guess, the rain for the past few weeks has been different than what you have down there.

sd	and then other than that there wouldn't be any rain. So,	sv	Especially the last few years.

aa	yeah.	qy^g	it's kind of been a drought out there hasn't it,

sd	and I'm glad to see there haven't been any this year.	sd	Yet .

sv	Still could come,	sd	Generally if we're going to get them, it's not going to happen, prior to January one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You may get a cold snap or two or some rain or something like we've been getting in December,

b	Yeah.	sd	Then by March things are getting warm again,

sv	it's so hard to predict here.	sd	It's been eighty degrees on Christmas day here before.

b	Yeah.	sd	Lots of times.

sv	Well, today it's not bad out there.	aa	No,

b	Uh huh .	sv	and it's really pretty.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'm a scoutmaster

qy^g	So you do that even in January,	ny	yeah.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah,

ba	that's interesting.	sv	But, it's definitely different.

b	Uh huh .	qy^g	And then, I guess you've been through a couple of summers here, too, right?

sd	People that I know that come from, like Georgia or North Carolina, Yeah, they say, it's,	aa	it is.

b	Yeah.	sv	and California for the most part.

b	Right.	qy	Were you northern California?

ng	I was central California.	b	Central.

sd	Central valley.	qy^g@	So that was, Dry, but pretty even climate, wasn't it? Year round, fairly, Not wide fluctuations.

sd	But it's a dry heat, yeah.	sv	Hundred , when you have a hundred here, everybody's dying .

sd	I know. Well, I lived in Africa for a couple years in Cameroon	b	Oh.

sd	and it really feels similar to this during the summer.	qw	What types of, What type, what type of business takes you to those climates

sd^e	I still work with Wycliff Bible Translators.	bk	Oh.

sd	It's an organization where we are looking to translate the BIBLE into languages of the world that aren't yet written.	bf	Not so much still trying to translate old texts as just trying to translate modern versions into other languages.

sd	or you know, first an alphabet is developed	b	Oh.

sd	the international headquarters for Wycliff Bible Translators is right here in Dallas.	bf	So you're with the home office now .

sd	That's what brought me here,	sv	Well, I think, all in all there are a lot worse climates than Dallas,

b	Yeah.	sv	and things do happen severely a few times a year,

sv	I thought the fall was really nice.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and when it begins to be in the sixties and seventies most of the time, I like that. Particularly if I'm going to be outdoors and doing, outdoor activity, hiking and things.

b	Uh huh.	ba	And that's nicer.

qy^d	you probably do a lot of that with scout scouting.	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Think we're going in just a couple of weeks out to east Texas,

b	Uh huh.	sv	the only thing you have to watch out in this part of the country is during the change type seasons is the really severe storms that occasionally come through out here on the plains.

b	Uh huh.	sv	There's not much between us and the North Pole .

qo	So, Julie, how do you feel about AIDS research?	sv	I think we definitely need more of it, definitely.

sv	it would have made even better economic sense to, to have had a lot more research than a l , longer ago.	aa	yeah,

sv	You know, you know, because, the country's going to wind up paying for the treatment of patients.	aa	Exactly.

b	Uh huh.	aa^r	Exactly.

sv	but what they do is, if, you know, you apply for to get a insurance policy they'll, check to see if you're H I V positive	b	Uh huh.

sv	so you'll never be able to get insurance ever again.	sv	well, but that's why they should have started doing stuff before.

sv	I think a lot of it was just that, you know, because of, of the, audi , you know, because, because the majority of the high risk groups were people no one really cared about.	b	Right.

sd(^q)	one, one h , one humorous retort I heard someone, you know, who claimed that, you know, AIDS was, you know, God's punishment was that, then lesbians must be God's chosen people.	b	Yeah.

qy	d , you mean, do you actually think we're doing enough right now to,	nn	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Like, San Francisco has a real, strong AIDS support group and all that kind of stuff

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, I think there needs to be more of that sort of on a federal level, you know, rather than just in the places you know, where it's predominated so far, because you know it's bound to spread .

sv(^q)	I mean, it seems that, you know, it's just going to reach a steady state a lot, lot higher point than it will if you know, we'd nip it in the bud to quote Barney Fife.	aa	Right .

b	Uh huh.	sv	Especially with the ultra conservatives move our political system sort of seems to be taking.

aa	I would probably agree with that.	b	Yeah

qr	so do you think it's more important to spend money on research or for support of, people?	^h	God,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and it's really not necessary, until the, disease reaches its final stage, you know, becomes really infectious

b	Uh huh.	sv	and, I think that would be the most effective support they could get is for other people you know, try to understand what they're going through and everything and try to understand that you know, they don't, they don't have to be just completely cut off from the community

b	Uh huh.	h	and, I don't know,

b	Uh huh.	h	I don't know.

nd	Well, they just kicked it off down here in Sarasota county.	bh	they did?

sd	they started first in Sarasota City. you know, which makes up a pretty small portion of the county actually.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	And, they've got these, I don't know what, if you're familiar with Sarasota county at all.	ng	Not quite,

sd	it's county wide program now.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And what they've done is they've broken everything down into garbage. yard trash. Plastic, cans and glass. And then, paper.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Which, in the paper, it's just, newspaper and corrugated cardboard. Is the only thing you're supposed to put in there.	b	Yeah.

sd	No slicks.	ba	that's good.

ny	Yeah.	bk	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they'd just sort it out for you .

b^r	Yeah .	sd	It was really pretty good if you're lazy like I am,

sd	but it's the other big vitamin company? Shaklee.	b	okay,

sd	and, and what she said that generally, the problems that people have with being environmentally conscious is number one, they don't want it to change their lifestyle and like, you know, especially make it anymore complicated or any extra work or anything.	b	Yeah.

sv	that's, that's what recycling at home sorting does, you know.	b	Right.

sv	I mean it's a little extra work.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And, it can actually turn out to be a lot of extra work because what they do, what they do here in Sarasota county is they've got,	aa	It can,

sd	and you set it out by the curb.	b	Right.

sd	or you can have bundles up to a certain weight, and certain dimensions, tie them up and put them by the curb.	aa	Yeah,

sd	and it's about one by one and a half foot wide and long.	b	Right.

sd	This is a little container.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Then they have a blue one the same size for the paper goods.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you know, and, and if you've got, food containers or anything like that, it's a big problem.	aa	Exactly.

aa	yeah.	aa^m	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	it's like well you know, if you're a partying kind of guy and you drink, you know, like a couple of twelve packs, maybe, over the weekend it's going to be hard pressed to put all your recyclables in that one place, you know.

aa	This is true.	sv	So it's kind of a pain in the butt.

aa	This is true.	h	But, I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Make it a little more convenient.

sd	they've got these large garbage cans that you can rent from the waste management company here. if you want to have a nice garbage can, you know.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's big.	qy	you can actually rent those?

ny	Yeah.	bk	Okay.

b^m	Yeah .	sd	up here the city provides them.

sd	but out here in the county you have to rent them.	b	okay .

sd	And they just add it on to your water bill or something.	qw	So where exactly are you in terms of, like, Sarasota?

sd	East of Sarasota.	bk	okay.

b	Uh huh.	qy	And Sarasota is on the west coast?

ny	Yeah.	bk	Okay.

sd	About an hour. About an hour south of Tampa .	b	Yeah,

sd	but those guys, they just kind of get into, s , stewing up trouble, you know. With the callers and things like that.	na	occasionally.

sd	and from listening to that, I kind of got an idea that I thought would be good with	b	Yeah.

sv	the welfare program that's going on right now.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I don't know if there's so much wrong with the public schools, as much as, we're expecting too much out of them.	aa	that might be a lot to do with it.

sd	Minnesota, Wisconsin.	bk^m	Minnesota,

b	Yeah.	sd	Problems with our educational system, a lot of it's due to money.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they're trying to spend money where we don't have it

sv	Well, it is getting very expensive to run schools,	aa	Well it is.

sv	There's just so much, more and less money to do it with.	b	Right.

b	Yeah.	sv	Cause if you can't pay the right people, you know, they're not, not going to get the people that can do a good job.

sv	and, I think it should go right back to the parents. If you don't train your kids right then .	aa	Right.

aa	yeah.	sv	And then when the kids get to school, they try to take away a lot of things that they can do to discipline the kids.

sd	I know when I, was going to school it wasn't uncommon for a teacher to strike a student that was misbehaving.	aa	Exactly.

sv	and they could probably lose their job .	sv	Lose their job and big lawsuit and all that.

aa^r	yeah .	sv	I feel that's got a lot to do with it.

sd	It seems that'd be a subject that I don't have much to say on .	b	Really.

b	Yeah.	sd	And a lot of his problems had to do with money mostly.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, unfortunately, there's not many places to get that money.

b	Yeah .	sv	Then if you don't have qualified teachers in the different ,

b	Right.	sv	Where maybe a physics professor,

sv	I know in a lot of cases, different districts like to have nice fancy schools.	b	Right.

sv	And maybe they should be a little more, concerned with paying the right people to teach and be, satisfied with maybe a little older school.	aa	Exactly.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the other schools were built back in maybe the fifties or early sixties

sd	and I don't foresee them, building a new one for a long time because they can't afford it.	b	Right.

sd	I get, I get that experience starting next fall with kindergarten.	b	Yeah.

b^m	Yeah.	bf	So you haven't really, dealt with that in a sense.

sd	But, being one of these late in life mothers, I've listened to everybody else's, you know, complaints as to what's the matter with either their kids or the school system.	b	Yeah.

sd	So I've been surprised.	b	Yeah.

qy	are, do you have school age kids ?	ng	mine are both out of school.

bk	Oh.	sd	And, you know, I've, in hindsight, seen some things that I wished that, you know, I had done something about that was, you know, within my power or, you know, wish that in some ways we, as parents, had more control over what's happening up there, you know, type thing.

qy	Such as?	sd	well, just over the years there were situations that, came up that I didn't think were fair or handled correctly

b	Uh huh.	sv	they bring things home

sd(^q)	I thought, Christ, they're letting me in, to, you know,	b	Yeah.

sd	I don't know anything about it.	sv	That's pretty interesting because just, just because you know a subject matter doesn't mean you can teach it.

sv	And even if I knew how to teach the subject matter, I don't know if I'd know how to handle that kind of a group of kids.	aa	yeah.

sd	and there is a real dichotomy in terms of educational and economic background of the kids that are going to be attending this school.	b	Uh huh.

sd	What I'm seeing now, in terms of kindergarten preparedness, just from, in, in different preschools it's like day and night.	b	Uh huh.

qh	And I wonder, how do they handle a child who is obviously very ready and another child who doesn't even speak English, let alone know her colors.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	I thought, well, how do you weed those out?	aa	Yes.

sd	They said at the bottom of the S A T scores of graduating college seniors are usually those people that go into education.	ba	wow .

b	Yes.	ba	That's encouraging.

qh	are the rest of us who went for the big bucks, you know, staying out of, you know, where maybe we should be kind of socially obligated to spend some time teaching or something with these kids?	b	Yeah.

h	I don't know .	ba	Well, you know, that's an idea.

sv(^q)	At the same time you think, God, I hope I don't sound like a stage mother because, right now if you ask my friends t , put twenty mothers in a room and ask them how many have gifted children, you're going to have twenty hands, you know, up there.	qy^d	you're kidding.

sv	it's not a kid who's, you know, precocious.	b	Yeah.

h	I don't know.	ba	That's interesting.

ad	don't say that.	ar	Nope.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She gave him an F on that paper.

sv	and I think, you know, you have to teach how to write an answer and, you know, how to construct a thought process.	b	Uh huh.

sv	And if they can't, I mean if they have missed that training, then somebody, you know, before you're start penalizing them with bad grades for not being able to communicate what they're thinking, teach them these basic skills.	aa	Yeah.

sd	but boy he sure had trouble, you know, putting things on paper.	b	Yeah.

sd	And at that point, he has now graduated from warfare electronics school with honors.	b	Oh.

sd	This is the kid who really, you know, barely made it through high school.	b	Yeah.

sv	And I keep thinking, you know, it's really not too late at any point to do, you know, some ,	sv	That's interesting that the military saw that and did something about it.

aa	Yes.	sv	You would have expected them to be the last ones to .

sv	Otherwise, he might have been driving trucks or framing houses, you know, from here to eternity.	b	Yeah.

sd	You know, it does make me nervous.	sd	Well, I can see why if you've got little ones just coming along.

sv	Maybe I should volunteer to, you know, teach what I know.	b	Yeah.

fa	I'm sorry .	bd	That's okay.

sd	and I'm Melanie from Harrisville, Utah.	sd	another one from a different state besides Texas.

sd^t	Bill, we're talking about family reunions.	b	Right.

qy	have you ever had to plan a family reunion?	ny	yes

bk	Oh.	sd	and I brought a lot of family together then.

qo	And how did you feel it went?	sd	It went pretty good.

bk	Oh.	sd	I used to, you know.

^h	let's see what else.	sd	Usually when we have kind of our family reunion it's my grandmother's birthday,

b	Uh huh.	sd	She has like seven sisters I think.

ba	boy .	sd	They show up and all their kids.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so it's a pretty big reunion,

qo	Well, what did you find was most helpful in planning the birthday get together?	sd	probably the biggest challenge was getting a place where everyone, you know, could eat comfortably and everything,

bk	Uh huh.	sd	I guess probably the most helpful thing was that, for the rent, we rented like a rescue squad building or something like that.

bk	Uh huh.	sd	And, everybody that showed up donated some money for the rent and for like soft drinks

ba	that's good.	sd	And each person in the family, you know, brought a dish, or something.

qy^d	it was just pot luck.	na	It was kind of pot luck.

b	Uh huh.	sd	You know, everybody brought their specialties, I guess you would say.

qy^d	show off a little bit .	ny	Yeah.

qw	Now how old is she?	sd	she's eighty six.

qy	is she, you know, pretty.	na	she looks probably like she's in her early sixties

ba	wow.	sd	and if she didn't have arthritis, she'd get around better than me as a matter of fact .

ba	that's neat, that she's in good health, and at that age.	b^m	yeah.

sd	but I found that advance planning was the key to success.	sv	also one thing that's helpful,

ny	Uh huh.	sd	but all my family lives like in the same county

ba	that's wonderful, though .	ad	But it's just kind of like get on the telephone

b	Oh.	sv	and everybody just shows up.

sd	I have a brother lives in Australia, to, Boise, Idaho, and, all kinds of places.	sv	I would say you're spread out, then.

aa	We are .	sd	my immediate family, you know, my parents and my brothers and sisters, I guess we're the ones that have the gypsy blood or whatever,

b	Oh.	sd	But since they've moved back to Carolina's, we still are the only ones do not live in in Yantsen County.

b	Oh.	sd	I live in Raleigh,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So I mean, we're spread out,

ba	my gosh.	sd	Nobody moves away except us .

qy^d	They must really like it there.	ny	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd(^q)	Just like this town is too small for me,

fp	Hi Diana.	fp^m	Hi .

qy	Have you all been able to do much as a family these days?	br	Pardon me.

qy^r	Have you all been able to do much as a full family these days, all of you.	ny	yes,

b	Yeah.	sd	we take the kids to the park,

qy	Do you work outside the home?	nn	No,

sv	it makes it a little bit easier, I think, that way.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	So they can have time with him

qy^d	So you have a break too.	na	Right,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, we just do all kinds of fun things like that

bf	It sounds like you might too.	aa	Yeah,

sv	and phone calls that's about it.	aa	Yeah,

sd	yeah, that's what we mostly do, pretty simple things.	b	Yeah.

sd	Especially since my youngest one is , excuse me, only fourteen months.	b	Right.

sd	she's really getting to the age where she's playing, and likes to go places.	b	Uh huh.

aa	That's right.	sv	So, you make more fun than, you know.

sv	that's a big thrill for them.	sd	they think that's a lot of fun.

b	Yeah.	sd	but during the day, you know, it's all devoted to our kids

aa	that's true.	b	Yeah,

qy	have you ever been to the Science, it's called the Science Place?	ny	Yes,

sd	and we went there a couple of weeks ago	b	Uh huh,

sd	We've only been in, I think it's Science Place Two.	sd	I'm not sure which one we went into,

sd	the thing that sticks out most in my mind is like a kids place area.	b	Uh huh,

sd	they really seemed to go wild in there.	aa	Yeah,

qw	Where's that.	sd	That's on Plano Road,

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And that's a lot of fun.

b	yeah.	sd	They have tours going through there

sv	It's a little bit of a ways,	sd	you know, whenever we take them to Showbiz

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's a indoor fun park

ba	That's sounds fun too.	sd	And parents get in free

qy^d	and you said about Plano and Campbell is the petting,	^2	The petting farm,

sd	I think maybe we'll try to do that.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	the kids just had a wonderful time there,

b	Yeah.	sd	You can have birthday parties there

qy^d	you don't have to have tokens for everything.	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	So they had a lot of fun.

sd	Well I've gotten some good ideas from you .	b	Yeah.

fc	but I'm sure that will be good.	fc	Yeah,

fc	It was good talking to you.	fc^m	Well it was good talking to you.

fc	I really appreciate your suggestions.	fc	no problem.

fc	bye bye,	fc^m	Bye bye.

o	Jeri?	ny	Yes.

sd^t	We're supposed to discuss crime in the United States and what can be done with it.	sv	That's a rather broad topic .

sv	They're usually pretty broad anyway.	b	Yeah.

qw	Where do you live?	sd	we live in Plano.

bk	Okay,	qw	and where you are?

sd	so when I heard the topic I was thinking of the thing down at, Maceo High School in Dallas.	b	Uh huh.

aa	It is, you know,	qy	do you have children in school?

sd^e	mine are already in college now,	b	Yeah.

sd	at least when they were in high school, it was beginning but not like the rampages.	sd	my oldest is his first year in high school

aa	That's true.	sd	they're coming down on the principal,

sd	well, I just don't understand of course, in my little world, how guns could be so available.	sd	Well , I don't either,

ba	my heavens.	sd	And, I mean, it just scared me to death

sv	Well, maybe that's the answer to crime is getting more prosecution.	aa	Maybe so.

sv	and people don't do anything.	b	Yeah.

sd	And all the neighbors said they heard her yelling for help.	ba	no.

sd	But nobody did anything.	sd	I just can't imagine that.

sd(^q)	Nobody even called the police to say, you know, I hear a strange screaming	b	Right.

sd	I don't blame people with today's society about going out to help themselves.	aa	Right,

sv	and probably one of the best things we could do for crime is to participate ourselves in its prevention.	aa	Right.

sv	I can't say they don't care, because people just have to care about another person.	b	Yeah.

sv	But it's that not getting involved, that impersonal society, I think we live in today.	sv	Well, maybe this thing , with the child at school, maybe that will make people think a bit more and, you know, take some steps to correct it.

qy^g	he didn't have a license for the gun, correct?	no	I don't know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it was a student age person,

o	Okay.	sv	The public school systems, well everybody's has known they've needed renovation for years, but never really had a clear direction on which way to go with it.

b	Uh huh.	sv	The first direction that or I wish, I would love to see them go with.

aa	That's true .	sv	You've got some kids that'll pick up on it in the first three minutes you're talking about it,

qw	what is your suggestions?	sv	The educators need to be a little bit more open minded as well as innovative in dealing with, the various students to get the maximum potential out of the person.

b	Out of each child.	b^m	Out of each child.

b	Each individual child.	sv	Some kids are going to be great with mechanical stuff.

b	Right.	sv	Instead of pushing the scales too far either direction, I mean it's great to be well rounded and be exposed to all this stuff.

aa	Yeah.	qh	But why not hit the points the kid's really interested in?

aa	But, I mean, I definitely agree with you.	sv	They need exposure to every subject.

aa	That's true.	sv	Everything I learned about ancient Rome has not helped me anywhere in, my adult life.

qh	I mean, what does this have to do with getting, you know, a computer science degree or whatever, you know?	qw	what type of history class is it that you're having to take?

sd	And then we have to take another one that's mid eighteen hundreds on up, to basically present.	sv	Well, the early ones they could actually combine two, levels of it, the one from seventeen hundred til say, the end of the Civil War.

b	Yeah.	sv	Combine that into one. And then from eighteen sixty five to present,

sd	well that's, basically what they're doing.	sv	but even then they're skimming over,

aa^r	Yeah,	sv	You know, I mean, if they really wanted to get to the meat of the matter, I mean, they make all these people out to be,

sv	I mean, if a child has, claustrophobia, I mean, that's just going to terrify him, you know	qh	if the isolation concept really works that good, why are our prisons overcrowded?

sv	I think that's not the way to you know, discipline a child by putting him in a closet .	sd	the as a part of the revamping of the entire education system on that lev , the public school system I want to see changed too.

b	Right.	sv	Well, then the extreme came in,

b	Right.	sv	so we now isolate them.

b	,	b	Okay,

b	Right.	sv	Let's put him into a situation where, okay, you crossed the line, you broke the rule, you're going to have to pay for it.

b	Right.	sv	But, it's going to tax you physically.

b	Uh huh.	sv	I mean, in , instead have them pick up around the school yard, have them weed a flower bed somewhere on the school yar . Do something to beautify the school property.

aa	that's true.	sv	the kid's having to give up his, quote, play time to pay his debt for what he did wrong.

sv	So, they're definitely going to work towards being good, you know, rather than trying to act up and be bad, you know.	sv	I think that not only applies inside the public school system, but in society itself.

qy	I mean, don't you think?	na	I, m , most wholeheartedly agree.

h	But I don't know.	sv	I mean, there's a point of over kill,

sv	I mean, they do things that they need that.	sv	Need that shock effect, where they equate the shock of being spanked with the actions they did to get spanked.

qo	what type of things do you do as a family to spend time together.	sd	we spend a lot of time outdoors jogging, bicycling, going to the park, some time watching V C R movies generally cheap things .

sv	with lots of kids you don't have lots of money for recreation.	aa	That's right.

sd	and we just have a hoot playing hide and seek when it's dark in our house,	b	Yeah.

qy	Have you taken a lot of vacations together	no	Most of our vacations are to go and see Grandma and Grandpa.

b	Uh huh,	sd	We get an occasional one or two day thing

bk	Oh.	sd	but most of them are going and seeing Grandma and Grandpa.

qw	now where do they live?	sd	In Arizona.

qy^d	so that's a bit of a drive for you there.	ny	Yes.

qy^d	so you like to go there for the holidays	nd	we don't go very often for holidays.

qw	what are the ages of your kids then?	sd	They range from twenty four to five.

qy^g	So you have some in the nest and some out,	na	That's right.

sd	and then they go down to four.	sd	I think the hardest thing for us is to find you know, leisure time activities that all of our kids can enjoy together with the age span that we have, you know,

ba	I bet,	sd	like the older kids love playing board games and that kind of thing

b	Uh huh.	sd	but the young kids don't understand it

b	uh huh.	sd	and so they get real frustrated when we try to do that,

sv	and they want to do something else.	b	Yeah.

qr	do you feel that the current trend in families spending time together is a positive one or a negative one?	sv	I think it's improving, actually.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We had an interesting experience the other day.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and we just kind of keep them at home

b	Uh huh.	sd	and our next door neighbor,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and she said, no, Sunday's our family day

b	Uh huh .	^q	and we keep our kids at home so we can spend time with them.

ba	That's good.	sv	And I think those kinds of things are happening a lot where we are right now.

ba	good.	sv	I think it's gone to one extreme where the families were just running all different direction

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think more people are interested in spending time with their kids now.

sv	and it does begin with the families at home	b	Yeah.

sd	and so I'm a firm believer in that, too.	sv	I think a lot of people are panicked, how kids are turning out and how things are going for kids and realizing they've got to start doing something.

sd	and, hopefully it's going to spread, .	sv	Utah's a lot better than Texas.

qy	do you have a lot of large families out there in Texas,	ng	Very few.

qy	You feel like you're in the minority?	na	definitely.

sd	Well, out here in Utah, five is about the the average,	^2	Average.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Never been back, since then,

b	Oh.	sd	so we get up occasionally.

sd	in fact my mom's out there in Texas right now, in Dallas, spending a month with her cousins, on their ranch,	qw	where in Dallas?

qy	is that close to Dallas?	no	I don't have any idea.

bk	Oh.	sv	Must be a little town.

sd	They have a ranch that has like five hundred acres,	b	Yeah.

o	Okay.	qy	Do you want to go first?

oo	or I will.	ad	Well, you go ahead.

sd	Down in the south, we have a lot of shrimp, okay?	b	Oh,

sd	And I have, shrimp that is steamed in beer, that I cook.	b	yeah.

sd	and we'd have a lemon pie for dessert.	ba	it sounds fantastic.

sd	And what's really neat about it is, the shrimp is cooked in like your rice steamer, your rice cooker.	b	yeah.

ad	and you put a bay leaf and put some, red pepper over it.	b	Uh huh.

ad	or you can just get some, you know, regular red peppers.	qy	Is it cayenne pepper, you mean?

qy	Cayenne?	ny	Yes.

ny	Uh huh.	b^m	Uh huh.

ad	Now if you use the dried kind? Then you would only use two of them.	b	Yes.

ad	and then you pour two bottles of beer over it.	qw	And how much shrimp would you use?

sd	Two pounds.	b^m	Two pounds,

sd	That's the jumbo shrimp in the shells.	b	yeah.

ad	Leave the shells on them so they won't just roll up.	b	Uh huh.

ad	and you cover it.	b	Uh huh.

ad	And you only cook it until the mixture begins to boil, and the shrimp turn pink.	aa	Okay.

sd	And, I usually put garlic powder in mine.	b	yeah.

sd	and they shell it as they eat it.	b	Sure.

ad	But, then the cauliflower, you, cook that in the microwave.	b	Uh huh.

ad	and you core it. in like a, what do you call it? Like Pyrex or something like that, kind of bowl that would go in the microwave.	b	Uh huh.

ny	Uh huh.	b^m	Uh huh.

sd	But it's got to have one that has a cover on it.	b	Okay,

ad	And you, put about two tablespoons of, water into this bowl, and about an eighth a teaspoon of salt.	b	Yeah.

ad	And then you just set your cauliflower in there,	b	Uh huh.

ad	And you rotate it one time.	qy	And are you cooking the whole head at one time?

ad	Y , when you core it, you be real careful so you won't knock your flowers off.	bk	Okay.

ad	and you turn it one time.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I shred up some just regular white cheese.	b	Uh huh.

ad	And you cook it for another three minutes on high, you know, just mainly to melt the cheese and everything, and let all the seasoning melt into it.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it's done.	b	Yeah.

sd	and then I put the, shrimp around the outside of it, you know, on my platter.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And they have the, garlic bread,	b	Sure.

sd	and it makes it a real nice looking, you know.	sv	And it's not much work.

sv	But it looks like it, you know .	aa	Yeah,

sd	You look like you went to a whole bunch,	qy^d	I bet it tastes good too.

sd	And, usually I cut those little cherry tomatoes up, and put some color into it, you know,	b	yeah.

sd	and I'll lay those on top of my salad, you know, to make it look nice and things like that.	qw	Now, how many could you serve?

sd	it usually serves six.	bk	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	ba	that's good.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So it's hard,

b	Yeah.	sd	And, they're big on finger food here, too. You know, chicken wings and, ribs, and that kind of stuff. barbecue and, cooking out in the yard, you know, when it's nice. Barbecue outside, chicken and that kind of stuff.

qy	Have you ever had crawfish?	nn	no,

sv	But see, that's one good thing about living down here is, usually anybody that comes over, you know, even if it's like, out of town guests and stuff, they want our cooking.	ba	of course.

sv	You know, they want it from down here.	b	Yeah.

sv	and more and more people are beginning to find out how good it is.	bh	Really?

ny	Uh huh.	b^m	It's similar.

sd	but it is, it is similar to, because you only eat the, tails of it.	bh	it does?

ng	it looks more like a crab.	bk^m	it looks more like a crab.

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Oh.

sd	I guess it looks more like a cross between, a crab and a lobster.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, you know, it's similar to a lobster too, because the tail has got the little pleats in it, like a, lobster would.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And we call them mud bugs .	b	Oh .

sd	it's the season for them right now.	qw	and where did you say you were from?

sd	Louisiana.	b^m	Louisiana.

ny	yeah.	sd	I love, blackened, you know, the fish and the chicken and that kind of stuff.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We have a few places up here that do that.

b	Yeah.	sd	And if ever I see it on the menu, I always get it.

b	Yes.	sv	It is so good .

b	You know,	qw	Now how do they do the blackened?

ad	you buy it as a seasoning.	qy	But, do you have to have a certain skillet, or something?

nn	Huh uh.	bh	No?

qy	I cook mine, well, do you have like a black iron skillet?	ng	I did have.

sd	I use, the black iron skillet to cook mine.	qy	does it have to get extremely hot?

ny	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	The blackening is really the seasoning.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean, there is, it's, a blackening seasoning.	b	 I see.

sd	it's not like you would have to cook it for an extreme amount of time, or something like that, to get it,	b	I see.

^h	and, Well, I'm trying to see.	b	Oh.

sd	It's got a picture of Dom De Luise on it.	bh	really?

ny	Uh huh.	bk	Oh.

na	Right.	qy	Is that what you're saying?

ny	Uh huh.	b^m	uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And, that is so good. Delicious.

ad	But you know, you do have to have it hot when you cook it. I mean, your pan.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and what blackens it, is the seasoning.	b	Oh.

fe	Oh! .	aa	It is.

b	Yeah.	sd	I, in fact I was in Texas for a little while.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I liked, the barbecues and the Mexican food.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I have a passion for all that type of different tastes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's why I enjoy going to restaurants and you know, trying different things.

qy	Well, have you ever thought about coming to Louisiana, you know, to visit?	no	I would love to.

sv	you don't even have to go all the way to New Orleans, you know, if you want to really get some good food.	bh	Really?

sv	I mean, you don't have to go that far south.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, of course, the further south you go, the better the food is, as far as I'm concerned.	bh	Is that right?

sd	We're going to go to New Orleans, again.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, we're only going down there for the food, though .	qy	Now, where do you go when you go there? right on Basin Street and those places?

sd^e	We go to the French Quarters and stuff like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And so, usually we don't go to the tourist ones.	b	Oh.

sd	We go to the ones that they tell us to go to, you know.	b	I see.

sd	And then we came back and ate, out on this, it was like a back porch .	ba	that's nice.

sd	there's no where you can miss.	b	Uh huh.

sd	it's unreal.	bh	Really?

sd	The seasoning it's just unreal.	sd	I'm trying to think what they call their soup.

qy^d	Gumbo.	ny	Yeah,

ar	No, gumbo.	b^m	Gumbo,

ny	Uh huh.	b	right.

b^m	Right.	qy	is, is that with seafood?

sd^e	You can even make it with chicken or you can make it with seafood.	bh	you can?

ny	Uh huh.	ba	That looks good too.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it looks delicious.

^h	And I'll tell you what.	sd	See we do, a thing, we call it a sea bake.

sv	but in the second time, at least overtly, where someone comes in and, finds out information about you that should be private, does not seem, obviously, everyday.	aa	I think I agree with that.

aa	That's right .	sd	so my immediate reaction was one of that sense of invasion

bf	it turned out to be, an invitation.	aa	Exactly.

qr	from personal parties or from these, phone answer, phone, commercial things.	sd	Commercial, solicitations primarily.

sd	because I'm usually so insulted by them I just hang up as soon as I recognize what, they are.	b	Yeah.

sv	and then they feel an obligation to respond even though there's not even a person there.	sv	And I think that's what makes one feel invaded is the fact that there seems to be little control

aa^r	Uh huh.	sd	and, that then ends up being the most common example for me.

b^r	Uh huh.	sd	I guess I'm not typically feeling invaded in my privacy relative to this one that you raised.

b	Yeah.	sd	And I don't think I would have thought about that.

sv	and, I'd like to think that it's quite low, at least in this country.	sv	to surmise. It is there.

sd	I don't think I'd like the K G B monitoring my phone or anything like that.	sv	Well, I guess, although, well, that's a good point where you said that how does one define what invasion of privacy is, because, if that's the case of a tree falling in the forest

b	yeah.	sv	and I'm not feeling invaded then maybe my privacy hasn't been because I have no sense of my privacy state having been invaded.

b	Uh huh,	sv	 if your defining it in terms of information gone even if it's something you don't know about it, well, then I guess one could assume one was invaded

b^r	uh huh.	sd	but I don't feel invaded by it.

b	Uh huh,	sd	I don't, have a sense of threat in general from those sorts of things,

b	uh huh.	sd	I'm not sure why.

qy^d	Well, you must have a relatively clean conscience then .	sd	the other side of that might be if someone found out something or surmised something that weren't true then I would feel probably more invaded in the gossipy sort of sense.

sv	more harmed or something.	aa	right,

b	Yeah.	qy	did you hear about this Lotus data base that was being put together?

sd	I was just about to write a letter when I heard they canceled it.	sd	That would be an example where my sense of threat would be high because I would find that there be, a good possibly that their facts were fantasy.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And then I would feel not only invaded in the sense that someone had obtained information that I would rather they didn't

b	Uh huh, uh huh.	sv	But then if it turns out to generate incorrect things, that's even worse

^2	They had you pegged .	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	aa	Right.

sv	I mean, you can't believe that.	aa	Right.

sv	and they wouldn't bother to check that carefully anyway to someone who's offering, you know, full cash price, for it.	b	Right.

sv	and suddenly what started as an invasion of privacy can be an invasion of your actual home.	aa	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sv	so, maybe that is a little bit of what privacy is.

sv	If I deviate from social norms of behavior, if I run up and down the street yelling or something, someone's going to invade my privacy very quickly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	certainly the language I know doesn't, but just says a word for loneliness.	ba	that's interesting.

sd	Loneliness is the closest you can come, which is really quite different.	sd	but no concept for wanting to be private.

sv	it's generally being alone is not a very desirable state, at least officially.	b	Okay.

sd	and, as a westerner in India, I was often surprised, and felt my sense of privacy there was quite invaded.	b	Oh.

sd	But on the other hand, I realized I could go out on the street and act like a complete lunatic,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and people would leave, me alone.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But it does mean that you have yet another reason to follow a set of social norms.	b	Yes.

sd	and it wasn't until I was thinking about it just now that I realized that's actually something that's culturally relative.	aa	that is true.

sd	of the time I've spent there, I still don't quite understand how certain things that I assume and require privacy and require not just that you be alone but actually that you have a sense of privacy.	b	Yes.

sd	but for me a lot of what I do requires a sense that there's this invisible barrier around me which people wil , will respect.	b	Yes.

sd	and I really do wonder how people do that.	ba	That's interesting.

sd	and they're doing something that normally I really only invite, people to.	bk	Okay.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I thank God every day that I have the resources that we have tapped into.

qy	Now, is he the elementary school?	na	He's in elementary school.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he's not severely learning disabled.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, you know, he just, He's being helped.

^2	But he is being helped.	sd	he was in resource from second grade till fourth grade in math,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they recently released him from, resource, which I was thrilled,

ba	great.	sd	I really was.

sd^e	that's something new to me.	sd	It is something new,

sd	I think I read about that in the paper.	sd	It's wonderful.

sd	Doctor Haggard is heading that up.	ny	Yes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	it's interesting, because I'm convinced I have the same learning disability, or had, that was ignored.

bf	so you learned how to solve your problems on your own.	aa	That's right.

qy	and then he just didn't learn the right way?	sd	Well, you know, it's funny.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and I would say to the teacher, you know, it's amazing.

b	Okay.	sd(^q)	And I kept saying to the teacher, something is wrong here.

aa	You're right.	sd(^q)	And the teacher kept saying, he has a May birthday.

b	Right.	sd	these teachers as far as I'm concerned are absolute saints, because in second grade, it was about the second week of school, I went up there,

ba	that's great for parents to be involved.	sd	Well, I was,

ba	how great.	aa	it was

qy^d	So she was able to zero in.	ny	yep,

bk	Oh.	sd^r	she had already picked it up.

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And sure enough, they tested him

ba	no.	sv	and to me that's the same thing.

sv	but that's something that parents, I think, are able to help the gifted child in the home more than they could help the learning disabled child.	aa	That's true.

sv	So, because, that's something you can do by just enrichment types of things in the home	aa^r	That's true.

sv	but learning disability, unless you are schooled in the types of things and ways to help a child like that, then it makes it real difficult	b	Uh huh.

sv	and this to me is the benefit I see in public schools is that, you do have government money to fund, the kinds of programs that these students need,	aa	Yes.

sv	and I'm not sure that the private schools or parochial schools address that problem, they test kids before they take them,	aa	Exactly,

sv	and if they're a behavior problem, they're out.	aa	that's right.

sv	and, this is kind of a rejection type of thing,	b	Right.

sd	and we get students that come in that have been kicked out of the, parochial and, private schools	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	and their attitude is, "I'm a bad boy," and proceed to prove it.	b	Really,

sd	I, would rather they not have that attitude,	b	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	and that was one of the points that I made, is that you're not comparing apples to apples.

aa	That's right.	sv(^q)	You know, you can't say, you know, I know Steven probably would not be accepted because he has a learning disability into a private school. which is too bad.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But on the other hand, I can't necessarily blame them, you know, they are a private school

aa	No.	sv	and they, can do whatever they want.

aa	right.	aa	that's right,

b	Right.	sv	Perhaps they are, because they're,

sv	If you choose the select top group out of the public schools and tested them, and then compared them to the private school group, then I think you would have a more equitable way.	aa	You're right.

sd	in, in, honesty, the kids in Japan they have to try out to even get into, to which kindergarten they're going to get into,	bh	really?

sd	in fact, they've had cases in the past where parents have committed suicide because their child has not gotten into the top kindergarten, which means they probably won't get into the top elementary and high school,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and if they don't, when they reach a certain age, that's the end of their schooling.	b	Uh huh.

sv	It's only their top ones that go on, like ours do.	b	Uh huh,

sv	And, and you can't compare, because they go so many more hours.	b	Yeah.

sd	The other thing is that the priority in the family is that child's education, and is that child.	b	Right,

aa	That's right.	sd	I was talking to somebody recently or read somewhere where they said that, you know, these children, they had to be the best,

aa^r	that's right.	qh	Well, is that good?

aa	Yes.	b	Sure,

b	Right.	sd	And so that's why I said, their childhood is extremely different from mine.

b	Right.	sd	We certainly didn't carpool and run the way I do.

sv	Well, and you don't see the parents, encouraging those students to get on athletic teams or, drill teams or band,	aa	No.

sv	and it's interesting to see them as they get older, then that is the type of adult they are.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, spent four years as a university professor.	bh	 really?

ny	Yeah.	sd	I spent three years,

bh	do you really?	ny	Uh huh.

ba	That's great.	sd	I taught in Utah,

na	I did.	b	Uh huh.

na^r	I did,	sv	You sound pretty young for a university professor .

sd	and I was, given the opportunity after I'd started a management consulting firm to teach in, one of the business schools in the California State University system.	b	Uh huh.

sd	At any rate, the topic is fascinating because one of the things I've done for the past few years is, research the problem from the point of view of, what appears to be working best and how you can explain it theoretically.	b	Uh huh.

qy	Have you ever,	ad	Well you can tell me a little bit more about it because I don't think we did that in Utah.

sd	and the, teacher becomes a sort of a resource person to the learning cooperatives, I guess they're called.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And there are, some fairly sophisticated approaches that are used in the high schools with point systems and things like that so that people, gain a competence with respect to the material.	b	Uh huh.

sv	school systems are, in too many states, dominated by administrators	aa	Uh huh,

sv	and, I think certain techniques and technologies will influence all of that as well as research, of the sort that people like me do looking at theories of behavior and how they can be used to improve performance, particularly, accelerate the pace of learning.	b	Uh huh.

sv	so it must be the way we're managing the process that,	aa	Yeah,

sv	but clearly what's happened in this country is the school system's been asked to assume a great many responsibilities in the past thirty years that weren't existent,	b	yeah.

qy	are they pretty happy with it,	^h	Well, I haven't taught in Iowa,

qy^d	Even in Utah.	ny	Yeah

sv	Well, Utah's a place where you wouldn't think that problem would be very severe.	sd	but a lot of schools had a lot of transient, families and a lot of families who were on the poorer side

bf	so, you saw a fair number of troubled kids.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	As well as hot lunch

qo	Well what do you feel about the, present situation in the Mideast?	sv	Well, it looks like it's just about as volatile as it usually is.

b	Uh huh.	qo	What do you think, Mark?

sv	and I think you know, the, end of the Soviet Union will definitely have it's effect on the situation.	b	yeah.

sv	basically since the end of World War two there was always, you know, that little proxy war going on. You know, with, the U S funding Israel and the, Soviet Union funding the Arab countries.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but on the same token, you know, Israel has lost a lot of their, you know, value to the U S in being, you know, the foothold of capitalism. You know in the Mideast.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, we kind of cringe when they make mistakes but yet overall tend to support them.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I think one of the most interesting things to me recently was, you know, during the war, in, Kuwait was, the fact that they did not retaliate, for the, scud missiles that were, launched there.

b	Uh huh.	sv	That just seemed to me to be a phenomenal, demonstration of restraint,

sv	but on the other hand, you know, if they would have had a hard time retaliating because you know, they wouldn't have been given access to the friend or foe codes.	b	I see.

sv	had a f , they had, they would have had to fly through, you know, two enemies.	qy	you don't think they got the codes from the U S already?

sv	The U S would claim that they would have not given them to them.	bk	I see.

sv	I mean, of course, you know, public statements can be taken for,	aa	That's true.

b	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	I pretty much question what the U S s motives were in, in actually the original involvement.	b	Uh huh.

sv	the cynical side of me says that, you know, it was more for, the domestic political situation than for anything else. You know, you know, and for portraying Bush is a strong President.	b	yeah,

sv	I mean I really think that, my gut feeling is that, you know, he pretty much picked the fight with, Hussein.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I mean I'm not saying at all that Hussein wasn't quite willing to enter that fight.	b	Right.

sv	But, you know, I think that, we chose to have our official feelings hurt.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean I thought, I think that, in the past we've allowed lots of things like that to happen.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think it was, there were a lot more demographic related interests involved than true foreign policy interests.	b	Right.

sv	And I mean in, in along this line since, you know it really, it really didn't accomplish very much except we're getting, the Iraqis out of Kuwait.	b	Right.

sv	I just don't, I, I d , I, I, I don't foresee Bush making the decision to invest a lot of manpower and money and, you know, in fighting a second battle.	aa	No.

sv	you know, over the, over what probably won't accomplish much for him politically.	aa	No,

aa	Uh huh.	sv	Even at this point.

aa	Uh huh.	b	Yeah.

sd	but I never made it off of Oahu, which I've heard is not the nicest of the islands.	b	Oh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	We were there for ten days.

ba	wow.	b^m	Yeah,

sd	My last vacation was actually in Morocco I guess	b	Morocco.

sd	that was about a year and a half ago,	ba	No kidding.

sd	and we were living in France at the time	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, so, you know, in that sense is just a little bit easier	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, So we didn't really have enough time.	b	Yeah.

sd	We had about, a little bit less than two weeks.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We rented a car and drove pretty much everywhere.	qy	Was it hot?

sd^e	in fact some of the days we froze.	bh	Really?

sd	well we were there in the winter. In January or February, I don't remember which,	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I was very young

ba	that's too bad	sd	So I don't remember

b	Uh huh .	sd	and that was when I was a baby

sd	The only thing I didn't like was in some of the more touristy areas it would just be besieged by people wanting to be your guide	b	Uh huh.

sd	and there were some places, where people, defini ,	b	Yeah.

sd	there would be kids there that were excellent at ripping you off,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we had things in inside pockets and you know, in jacket underneath a coat type of thing.	b	Really.

b	Uh huh.	sd	but they were so destitute

b	Yeah.	sd	you know, it's a little scary too when they're coming up and they're all over you.

sd	the worst place was in Marrakech	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they tell you to do that is to hire a local guide	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they keep everyone else away from you.	b	really.

sv	and its worth it just to keep everyone else away from badgering you	b	Really.

sd	but we did it,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we were much happier,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and you also get in to see things that you might not get into if you were alone,	b	Uh huh.

^h	,	qy^d	Well you lived in France,

ny	Yes.	qy^d	so you've been all through Europe.

sd^e	actually I haven't been all through Europe, like I haven't been to Italy yet.	b	No.

sd	and so, hopefully, we'll get to travel a little bit too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've been to the Galapagos Islands.	bh	Really?

sd^e	that was one of the most wonderful vacations I've ever had.	qy^g	Lots of wildlife

sv^e	If you like wildlife, it's a fabulous vacation.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and just the photos I have of it and gosh, incredible and be so close,	qw	Now when was that, when were you there?

sd	August, eighty eight.	b	Uh huh.

sd	a lot of my travel has been sort of based around conferences or business meetings	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so, I went to Hawaii and then to Australia and Japan and China,	b	Uh huh.

ng	I, actually I didn't go diving.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so, that's actually been another of my favorite vacations has been taking little diving trips	b	diving.

sd	I drove from Sidney down to Melbourne and over to Adelaide.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's huge.	bh	Is it really?

ny	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah,

no	I don't remember if I had shrimp.	bh	No?

ng	I don't think so.	sd	I remember food .

sv	it would have been, I think, much more fun to do it like in the van, with a bunch of people.	b	Uh huh.

ny	Uh huh.	b	Really.

sd	And I was by myself in China too.	bh	Really?

ny	Yeah.	ba	wow.

sd	But, it wasn't more of a challenge in a sense because I hired a guide all the time,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so I never, you know, got out by myself, or not much,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, but this is from Hong Kong,	ba	You're kidding!

sd	It's just a train ride.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I had one, yeah, two internal plane flights and a couple of other things.	qy	All for a thousand dollars?

ny	Uh huh.	ba	Wow!

sd	Around a thousand.	qy^g	I guess I relate it to Japan where things are very expensive, aren't they?

na	Japan's ridiculous.	b	Yeah.

sd	they were all completely clean,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they were sort of the lower end of the top of the line, hotels, because they said you can't stay in the cheap stuff.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	b	Yeah,

sd	her name was Rita at China Tours in Boston .	bh	really.

sv	and it would really be fun, I think ideally with like two couples because you have a car and a driver and a guide	b	Uh huh.

o	All right.	sd	there was a crime here in McKinney, a rather heinous murder.

b	Uh huh.	sd	There was no remorse shown by, at least one of the perpetrators.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And yet, for whatever reason, his crime was not considered a capital crime.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and quite honestly I feel very strongly that the, man has no redeeming social values

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, it really bothers me that there's not a way of getting him out of the way forever.

sv	but you still have to pay your Visa bill.	ba	that's right .

sd	And, I worked in a prison in Fort Worth.	bh	Did you?

sv	You see it, you know the ones that have a genuine character change.	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, you know, I leave that with the governor, who, of course, is going to go through every authority because they want to be be reelected,	b	Yes

^2	Punishment.	fa	thank you, I'm sorry, I just got home from work

bd	that's okay.	sv	that, not all of them are being convicted of it, that, the, they're not even being charged with that appropr ,

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	but the same God that can work that miracle also established the laws that said, for certain kinds of sin, certain kinds of, breaking of the law, there would be a capital punishment.

b	Uh huh.	sv	Right then it was, almost immediate.

b	Uh huh.	sv	As soon as the trial was over, then it was stoning.

b	Right,	sv	We don't have a speedy trial,

sv	Because under the law if your child back talks you, he would be stoned.	ba	That's correct.

sv	see, if I don't believe that there's not a character change and the authorities agree, that this person needs to be excused, I believe for murder, rape, I even believe incest, things , that will permanently damage, the character of the child.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I believe crimes against children should be punished by, by death. I believe, sexual crimes, unless there's a true change of character.	aa	I tend to agree on that, very strongly.

sv	but it's not, because the judicial system they've rejected the answer to all these problems they have, pretty much.	sv	Plus all the judicial system is overloaded with, all kinds of, problems, and crimes and so forth and then all of the, civil things that clog the courts,

b	Uh huh.	sv	and having sat on both, criminal and a civil, jury, some of what goes through our courts is a total waste of time.

b	Yeah.	sv	Because we're suit happy.

b	Yeah.	sv	but back to the capital situation, sounds like you and I have a lot of, of, common ground at least as far as capital punishment is concerned.

b	Yeah.	sd	I would like to see some kind of reform, or some kind of streamlining so that, if a person is, convicted, and sentenced to death, that automatic appeal which goes in could be more quickly dealt with.

b	yeah.	sv	and go ahead and get the punishment phase out of the way, because it doesn't do the criminal or the victim's family, r , any of us, the taxpayer any good to have him sitting around for months and years.

b	Yeah.	sv	him could be a her.

sd	And, you'd see the same kid who were back out there in two days.	ba	That's sad.

qh	you know what I mean.	ny	Yeah.

sv	I feel like that might be better, if it was run on a more scriptural basis, which would include, you know, you know, and expediting the penalties and just getting it over with.	sv	However, certain very liberal minded groups who do not, subscribe to the same ethical system that you and I do, such as the, civil liberties unions and so forth, will lobby against that and hold that out as long as they have breath. Which is most unfortunate because we all lose out, when people go so far out to the extreme, on either side.

b	Yeah.	sv	Because too often, they're can be extremism that hurts from any direction, regardless of whatever you're arguing or concerned about.

qh	and that's why, you know, I'm like, okay, what's my role in this thing, , you know, what's my part,	b	Yeah.

qy	do you have any pets now?	ng	Well, we don't right now,

b	Yeah.	sd	but, right now we don't have anything.

bk	okay.	qo	What about you?

qr	a matter of choice, or compulsion?	sd	it seems like, we've always been at a place where we'd have to go away for the summer or something

b	Yeah.	sd	we were thinking about getting a dog if we get into a house.

b	Yeah.	sd	someplace where there, you know,

b	Yeah.	qo	and, What about you all?

sd	and campus housing does not even allow thinking about that .	ba	no.

sd	we almost got chased out of here for feeding a stray cat.	bh	Is that right?

sd^e	They're very strict about it.	qy	But you like pets and things?

na	I love animals.	b	yeah .

sd	our house when I was growing up there was almost never, at least one cat in the house.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It was almost always at least one cat, sometimes, you know, like fifteen or twenty. But, always cats in the house.	b	yeah.

b	Oh.	sd	we like pets,

b	Yeah.	sd	we've got some children

qw	How old are your kids?	sd	from fourteen down to seven.

bk	Okay.	qo^d^c	You sound like you've got some small ones in the background.

sd	One.	bh	Is that right?

sd	He's about eleven weeks now.	ba	great.

b	Yeah.	ba	Congratulations.

b	Yeah.	qw	Where are you from?

qy^h	originally?	ny	Uh huh.

sd	West Virginia.	bk	Okay.

qy^d	I don't know how familiar you are with that area of the country	sd	I've been to Charleston.

qy	Charleston, West Virginia?	ny	Yes,

qy	that's pretty much the south end of the state, or the southern quarter of the state, anyway? .	ny	Uh huh.

sd	in the north end of the state, you've got that little narrow strip of West Virginia going up between Ohio and Pennsylvania .	b	Uh huh.

sd	Right at the base of that northern peninsula is my hometown.	b	Uh huh .

aa	Yeah,	b	I guess so.

sd	well, my parents' house is like three miles south of where the Mason Dixon Line would have hit the Ohio River had it continued that far.	ba	Gosh.

na	it's beautiful.	qy	Hills, or what?

sd	well, from my neck of the woods, it's hilly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	you know, maybe four hundred feet elevation, type variations from the valleys up to the hilltops.	b	Uh huh .

sd	most of the agriculture, it's more in the way of, sheep and cattle.	b	yes.

sd	And even that's, you know, small time mostly.	b	Sure.

sd	the biggest chunk of what's going on there is, industry.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's coal mines and chemical plants and power plants.	bk	Okay.

sd	There's like two aluminum plants .	qw	what are you studying there at Heidelberg ?

sd	Computer engineering.	b	yeah.

sd	just finished up my fourth semester.	ba	Well, great.

b	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	it's a big change.	b	Yeah.

sd	I spent, twenty years as a mechanic	bh	did you?

ny	Yeah.	sv	Well, you've got some experience behind you in the work force.

aa	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	I'm working on a bachelor's degree.	bk	okay,

sd^r	I'm working on a bachelor's degree.	qy^d	Hope it's a good program there.

br	Pardon?	qy^d^r	Hope it's a good program there.

na	it seems to me, from what I've been able to find out.	b	Yeah,

sv	But, it's worth it once you get it.	aa	Well, yes,

ny^r	yeah.	b^m	Yeah .

sd^e	Most the class are pretty small.	ba	Good.

sd	That works out real well.	qw	Well, I was wondering what, if you all were to get a pet, like if you were to move into an apartment

sd	well, first off we'd probably wind up with a cat or maybe a puppy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I, I'm partial towards the larger dogs.	b	Uh huh.

sd	our last, we've had a couple of cats before we moved on campus.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they got, to be a lot of fun.	b	A hamster.

sd	we have a computer, here at the house,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I take half of that amount out of my checkbook with each paycheck, even thought it's really still there, so that I can keep, good balance, a running total, yeah through the month,	b	Uh huh.

qo	What do you all do?	sd	we've, taken how much we have, you know, write down how much we have coming in each month

qrr	or does it work out pretty well?	sd	it takes some dedication to do it,

qy^d	and you're staying within your budget and everything is working pretty good.	b	Uh huh.

bf	You don't have to go out and borrow it somewhere and do that.	aa	Right,

sd	we've taken that this year, and said we're going to pay off all of our credit cards	t3	You've got paper under your table.

sd	and, we have, another loan with the bank,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so we hope by the end of this year, that by doing that we'll be free, and clear.	^2	To be out of that.

ba	That's good to be in that kind of shape.	sd	We try to stay out of debt .

qw	What are you all trying to do long term.	^h	it's long term.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, we don't have any long term, you know, in stocks, or anything like that right now,

sd	or so much a pay check and then they match it.	b	Yeah,

sd	we're putting it in C D's right now,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then we're also looking at it in possibly getting a mutual fund.	b	Yeah,

sd	and their agent did a long term analysis based on salary and, what, what our, goals were on a long term budget in terms of retirement, kids college, paying off the house, buying a different house, special thing, buying land and building our own house	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they did an analysis for us based on what we were putting in and the time frame that we wanted to look at, and then gave us you know, some good information back on whether or not we were going to achieve those goals, or not, and what we needed to do so that we could achieve them and the money we could put in at what time.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that's a big thing to think about.	aa	Right,

sd	I guess that's most of my, financial plans right now.	b	Yeah

qy	is there anything you'd like to add?	nn	No,

fc	Well it's been nice talking to you.	fc^m	Nice talking to you too.

fc	Bye, bye .	fc^m	Bye, bye.

qy	Do you use P C s?	na	constantly.

sd	You and me both.	sd	It seems everything I do is computer related.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And if it goes down, then we're stuck all day.

sd	And so I like the I B M P C, personally.	b	Huh uh.

sd	and, I've become so accustomed to it that, it's second nature.	b	Yeah.

qo	What do you use?	sd	Well, I have an, I B M P S two, model thirty.

b	Yeah.	sd	It's kind of getting too slow for me,

b	huh uh.	sd	And I use my personal computer constantly,

b	Huh uh.	sd	I also use my P C to emulate a mainframe terminal for our I B M mainframe and also to emulate a deck terminal for our deck machine.

b	okay.	sd	So all I have on my desk is my P C,

sd	So we use, an I B M P S two also.	b	Huh uh.

sd	And, you know, every now and then the file gets so big, that, you know, it moves slower than I'd like	b	Huh uh.

sd	but I do mainly graphic work on it. And, a little bit of word processing and then lotus applications to it.	b	Huh uh.

sd	I enjoy working with them.	b	Yeah .

sv	I mean, the things you can do are endless.	aa	Yeah.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And there's three of us E D P auditors

b	Yeah.	sd	so I ended up taking on the load of making sure everybody knows what they're doing

b	Huh uh.	sd	I don't have one at home,

sd	but I just don't find the time that I can use it.	b	Yeah.

b	Yes.	sd	we've got a couple of portable lap top P C's at the office that I end up bringing one of them home a lot, to do work.

b	Huh uh.	sd	If I had a machine already installed at home I would probably work just about every night .

sd	they didn't know how they were going to do without me at work because, I am pretty much like you said, the guru, in the office with the different programs and any trouble shooting that there is,	b	Yeah.

sd	they knew they were going to have to get a modem in the decks machine so that we could, in my home, so that we could make it through this eight weeks or so.	b	Yeah.

sv	But, you know, it's almost like we could become too dependent on them.	b	Yeah.

sd	And we use a lot of free lance.	b	Huh uh.

sd	And, that's, pretty much takes up a lot of our day so for as producing transparencies and things.	b	Yeah.

sv	compared to the way the things have upgraded, Have, really,	b	Right.

sv	It's remarkable the things we can do now, and compared to, you know, a few years. Just the power,	b	Yeah.

sd	Mine, is just putting along .	sv	And it's not fast enough for a new four eighty six chip,

b	Yeah.	sd	But I'm determined to brake mine

b	Yeah .	sd	Well, that's what I do.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And we had about ten people sharing this printer

ba	now that's awful.	sd(^q)	So the first thing when I started working at this bank, is, I said, well, now first of all we need to all be able to share this P C without getting up.

b	Huh uh.	sd	but we can share the printer

b	Okay.	sd	And we can send mail messages to each other, which is good enough,

b	okay.	sd	it's what we need.

b	Right.	sd	And then I talked them into buying a H P Laser Jet.

b	yes.	sd	And that was a major ordeal to get him to buy it.

sv	The copy that you can with one of those as compared to one of those dot matrix printers.	aa	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	and I can use either the Pro Printer

b	Huh uh.	sd	So if I just need something real quick, I don't feel like getting up and going and getting what I printed,

sd	we're just trying to talk ours into getting a laser printer.	b	Yeah.

sd	the budget restraints and things like that, makes it difficult	sv	They have gotten really cheap.

b	Huh uh.	sd	but the quality is almost laser quality.

b	huh uh.	sd	And I think it's called the desk jet

sd	And we, got a quote on some laser printers the other day at six hundred dollars.	bh	really.

sd	but, we do a lot of transparencies.	b	Huh uh.

sd	Sometimes the color would take too long to plot out.	b	Yeah.

sd	So they just want black and white, which see we can just run them through the laser printer real quick. Because it will only take a minute to print one of those out and then run a thermal copy of it.	b	Yeah.

sd^e	If it was a customer presentation then that would be different.	b	Yeah.

sd	and if well in our area, if we want to use it, you know, like you said, you had to change it, put it on a disc, And carry it over to there, and see if they're not using the printer,	qy^d	You use the sneak , system.

na	Right .	b	Yeah.

sd	And, wait for an opportunity to use it.	b	Yeah,

b	Huh uh.	sd	Until they got off the machine.

aa	I understand.	sd	I was amazed when I came to work,

b	Huh uh.	sd	well, it's part of the bank holding company and that bank holding company of the ten largest banking holding companies in Texas.

b	huh uh.	sd	Any way, I work in a big prestigious place.

b	Right.	sd	And I couldn't believe when I walked in the door on my first day and here's the audit department of this huge holding company, sharing a H P Rugged Writer .

qh	So how are you supposed to expect to stay number one when you're behind the times in technology.	aa	Yeah,

b	Huh uh.	sd	It's just the audit department happened to be just a little behind the times because the senior vice president, over audits, is cheap.

b	Huh uh.	sd	And it's real hard to pry money out of him to do these things,

sd	We find it or hard to understand when, we work for a computer company, and, how are we supposed to present the imagine that we're supposed to present with equipment that's outdated, That's obsolete	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	and when we try and then they complain about, this doesn't look good.	b	Yeah.

o	Okay.	b^m	Okay,

qy	Your name is Lynn?	ng	Linda.

b^m	Linda.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	I read quite a bit, probably don't read as much as I would like to.	sd	I don't read as much as I would like to either.

b	Uh huh.	qo	What do you like to read?

sd	so most of my books are, I guess what you'd call self improvement type of books.	sd	That what I've been reading lately a lot of.

qw	What kind of things have you read?	sd	I read all kinds of things for, helping people survive a divorce.

b	Uh huh.	sd	THE ROAD LESS TRAVELLED was probably one of my favorites.

ng	I haven't gotten through it yet.	bh	You haven't?

nn	No.	b	Okay,

qy^h	as far as dealing with divorce?	ng	I'm kind of getting that one past me, but a good self help book.

b	Good self help.	b	Yeah.

sd	Well, probably the best one that I know of and I work with all the time is called SEARCH FOR SIGNIFICANCE by Robert McGee	ba	that sounds good.

sd	I don't know what the chains are down there. Maybe in the mall family book store, something like that.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's a Christian treatment organization	bk	Oh.

sd	so a lot of the books I've been reading have to do with helping them get through those issues.	sv	I would imagine helping them feel good about themselves

b	Uh huh.	qy^d	that must be a wonderful feeling to be in that profession and be able to make a contribution like that.

nd	and sometimes it's a struggle.	ba	I'm sure,

sd	it's hard for me to do a lot of, yeah, reading just for enjoyment.	^2	just joy reading.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I just realized I had never read it growing up.

ba	that's neat.	sd	And it was good.

sd	I've always wanted to go back and read some of my literature texts from college because I enjoyed some of those stories so much,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but I never seem to have the time to do that kind of reading.	aa	I know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Just like, I want to read that and I write it down.

sd	I've got a stack next to my bed .	sd	So do I.

sd	but I was trying to think, there's another Scott book that I've got that I had read.	sd	he also wrote PEOPLE OF THE LIE.

sd	that's the one I was thinking of.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Someone just recently said something really neat about that.

ba	That's interesting.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I can't think of his name.

qy	Is it ?	br	Pardon me

qy	?	nn	no,

b	Uh huh .	qy	Have you been involved on the Switchboard long?

sd	I really just started.	b	Uh huh.

sd	My wife has been working for T I.	bk	I see.

sd	they tend to come out with a new book every couple of weeks just to help us deal with all the things that we have to deal with.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, I don't know when I'm going to get to them all.	sv	Never,

aa	I don't think so.	sv	Even if you took speed reading.

aa	I don't think so.	^h	So, well, I'm trying to think of what other kind.

sd^e	a little bit.	qy	Do you like Ken ?

^h	Trying to think.	sd	He writes, spy novels, THE EYE OF THE NEEDLE

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I've really, I really have found his books enjoyable .

sd	It's a lot about spiritual warfare and some things like that.	ba	that sounds interesting.

aa	Uh huh.	sv	You know, it's so easy to get caught up on reading just for your work, or, you know, self improvement,

aa	that's true.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, I guess we've covered the topic pretty thoroughly.	aa	I think so, too.

fc	nice talking to you, Linda.	fc	And, I'll have to check out that book you, told me about.

fc	great.	fc	Okay,

fc	Hope you like you it.	fc	Thank you.

fc	Uh huh.	fc	You take care.

fc	You, too.	fc	Bye bye.

o	All right.	b	Okay,

sd^e	I exercise pretty regularly.	bk	Uh huh.

sd	I lift weights quite a bit.	bk	Uh huh.

sd	so I keep up with that a little bit.	bk	Uh huh.

qo	How about you.	sd	the only exercise program I'm doing right now is walking.

bk	Uh huh.	sd	I've got a nine month old,

bk	Uh huh.	sd	I have enjoyed aerobics in the past,

bk	Yeah.	sd	and that's my favorite way to exercise.

sd	My wife's about five months along	b	Oh.

aa	so that is a good exercise for that.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	My husband and I use to walk together,

sd	I do it on my own schedule.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but it was so difficult to go on a regular basis, to drive the distance you have to go.	b	Uh huh.

sd	we've, just save the fees and buy some of our own equipment.	sv	And then you can do it whenever you want I guess.

sd	and I use that sometimes too.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but, I guess you're not as dedicated if you don't drive over to do it.	sv	I guess it depends on the person, depends on how motivated you are.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because my husband used to work out three days a week at the Texas Instruments gym.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And then I would just go on Saturdays.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, I guess, like I say, we've been paying these fees and not going,

sv	I think you really have to be disciplined.	b	Yeah.

sv	and I think you really have to, at least twice a week, just to maintain the shape that you're in.	aa	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I have two friends, that we walk.

b	Yeah.	sd	So when we go, we do about fifteen miles a week,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but but I enjoy doing it more when I've got other people with me.

aa	Sure.	sd	You know, I usually do it because I want to, because I know it's good for me, not because, I don't feel obligated to do it.

qy	Did you exercise between your first child and your second?	na	I exercised pretty well up until I was pregnant,

b	Yeah.	sd	And I had to stop the aerobics because it was just kind of painful.

ba	Gosh.	sv	So, it would seem to be real beneficial.

qy^d	maybe it speeded up the process and all that.	nd	Well I think it made parts of it a lot easier.

ny	Uh huh.	bk	okay,

b	Really.	sd	having both of them natural, the first one was natural and going natural the second,

ba	Well, that's good.	qy	So, do you work with T I?

sd	my wife has been working with them.	bk	okay,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I think, that's what the class that meets on Saturday mornings.

sv	But there's a lot of different things you can do that are enjoyable that you don't have to strain yourself or sweat or be real sore afterwards.	aa	That's right.

sd^e	I think we've talked about six minutes or so.	fc	Okay,

fc	Been good talking to you as well.	fc	Okay,

fc	Yours too.	fc	Bye bye.

qo	Well, how do you feel about it?	sd	Well, I don't have any strong convictions about it,

sv	That's like forcing someone to donate to a charity.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean, and it's nice to try to teach young people some, civil, consciousness, but forcing them to donate basically their time and efforts,	aa	Yeah,

sd	I don't either.	sd	I have nothing to say about this.

^q	I think that's dumb.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I've been here for, just well, no, almost four years.	bk	okay.

sd	And I lived with Dana in school.	b	okay.

sd	That's how we know each other.	qy^g	And, you were just up there then,

sd^e	last weekend. We went to Six Flags Saturday.	bk	okay.

sd	Had a good old time.	ba	Well, that's good.

sd	I mean, the recording mentioned the Peace Corps.	sv	Well, I mean, this is like major long term commitment, like a year or six months,

b	Yeah.	sv	so you're looking at the Peace Corps or sabbatical maybe,

sd	and every once in a while I'll do, a, local Big Brother Big Sister thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Or I'll go, you know, do a .	sd	But that time is minuscule compared to what, they were referring to.

sd	I couldn't possibly commit a year or two of my life to go do something.	aa	Yeah,

sv	they send you someplace that there's a lot of bugs .	aa	Yeah,

sv	I'd probably catch a terrible disease and die.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	I think that maybe that's why some people do it is, to see the other cultures you know and some of that.

b	Uh huh.	h	But, to do that, I don't know,

sd	and none of this, you go spend two years in the Peace Corps to broaden your horizons.	sd	Uh huh. Well, you know, I know American Express,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And they're allowed to take that time off and then come back where they left off.

sv	Well, I mean, in that respect a lot of people join the military to grow up and to decide what they want to do,	aa	Yeah,

sv	and the Peace Corps or something like that is probably useful as that kind of a time.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	people don't know what they want to do.

sd	I'd probably have a different perspective if I actually knew someone that had gone into the Peace Corps.	b	Yeah.

sd	But I don't.	sd	I, I don't.

sd	well, I'm going to go get a good job and make some money and buy a nice car.	aa	Yeah, or try to make a living.

sv^t	and I guess they keep you on the same topic until you actually talk to somebody about it.	bf^t	So you had the same one,

aa	Yeah.	sv	well. Well, you'll get it over with here .

aa	I know.	qw^t	How many times have you talked?

sd^t	probably five or six.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	Not a whole lot.	sd^t	I've done maybe four or five.

qy^t	Did Dana sign you up for this?	nd^t	Well, she just sent me the information out.

sd^t	so they mailed me the information that I filled out .	qw^t	What other topics have you had?

sd^t	I've talked about the weather.	ba	Great,

sd^t	So that was pretty interesting.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	And I talked to somebody about credit card usage.	b	Yeah.

sd^t	and they didn't have much credit available to them.	b	Uh huh.

sd^t	And so she basically didn't use credit cards and didn't know very much about them and how they work, and how you can use them to your advantage, and how, you know, you can do certain things with them.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	So that's a good deal for me.

b	Yeah.	sd	That's the way I use them,

b	Yeah.	sd	I try to make sure I don't get in debt.

sd^t	and I haven't gotten a one of them yet when I've called.	^h	let's see,

ba	how funny.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd^t	so that one was all right.

sd	and I can't even I can't even grow an ivy.	qy^d	And you've probably never gardened in your life .

sd	Well, I killed it pretty quick.	b	Yeah,

qo	what type of magazines do you have?	sd	We take several at home.

qy	do you, receive a lot of information on skiing through the SKI MAGAZINE?	na	I presume that I do.

bk	Uh huh.	sd	I suppose that puts me on some mailing lists and so forth, because I do get things from ski associations and things, during the year.

qy	do you think	ng	not so much that, I, more likely to see those at a ski show or something,

bk	Oh.	sd	Some fashions are always in there too.

qy	did you receive information from your skiing magazine?	ng	Probably not.

bk	Oh.	sd	We haven't been there before.

ba	that sounds nice.	sd	Kind of away from the crowd is why we chose that one.

b	Uh huh.	sd	It's supposedly low lift lines.

b	Oh.	sd	But I haven't skied Utah yet,

ad	well, you need to come out .	sd	I'd like to go to Sundance and Park City and some of those.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I understand Deer Valley is nice, too.

sv	it's wonderful snow .	qo	Well, how about you,

sd	so the DECORATIVE WOODWORKING has just been a great, great help.	bk	okay.

sd	I like that.	ba	Well, that's good.

aa	Uh huh .	sd	I mean, I read it,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but then eventually there'll be a school project or something where my son will need to refer back through forty eight back issues to find you know, France or something or whatever it is he's looking for.

sv	Every once in a while they come in handy .	sd	I used to take SMITHSONIAN too,

b	Oh.	sd	I liked that magazine

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I was, just found myself not ever getting around to reading it.

b	Oh.	sv	You get so many coming in,

b	that.	sd	SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN comes to our house, too, I forgot,

b	Oh.	sd	but but I do read it, too.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And he takes GAMES MAGAZINE GAME MAGAZINE, which has puzzles and things that he likes to solve, you know, crosswords and various logic puzzles and things like that

b	Uh huh.	sd	he likes to try that,

sd	and they like to go through	b	yeah,

sd^e	and so we've found good use for those.	sd	Mine is a senior in high school,

b	Oh.	qy^d	You're just sort of beginning to think about first grade.

sd	Well, I do have a boy in junior high, too,	bk	okay,

o	advice on son or daughter going to college.	b	Right.

sd	that's advice that I will need in time future for my children, rather than one that I have, personal experience with .	b	Uh huh.

sd	I suppose I would ask what the child wants to do in life and what the child hopes to get out of college and what sort of college would best meet those needs.	b	Uh huh.

qw^t	What advice would you give?	b^m	What advice.

sv	I guess one clear cut piece of advice is by all means visit the college campus.	aa	Yes.

sv	talk to faculty members and students.	aa	Yes,

^h	I'm thinking what problems my children might have in that,	qy	You think so ?

aa	but I agree with you.	^h	let's see,

b	Uh huh.	sv	if it's something different than the one they're used to, I guess,

sv	Well, course it is a big factor in having an understanding of how much parents will pay and how much has to come from other sources and you're willingness, one, to work during the summer or part time. And to, to take out loans to assume, debt after college.	aa	That's right.

aa	Yes.	sv	and, like I said, if they was willing to work, in the summers and also maybe then the parents could pay a third

sd	Mine is twelve.	b	okay.

fo^c	Hello?	o^c	Yes,

sv	I think it's more a burden to provide for.	b	No.

sd	I feel less strongly about the T V s and refrigerators.	b	No,

o	Okay.	qw	So, who's your, favorite team?

sd	The Dallas Cowboys.	bh	The Dallas Cowgirls,

ny	Yeah.	sv	Well, they did have a fairly decent year finally this year.

b	Uh huh.	sv	At least they're coming around.

sv	they're going to get better.	sv	Well I mean, you know, I think, once Jimmy Johnson gets his system established, they'll do all right.

sv	That kind of killed them at the end of the season last year.	b	Uh huh.

qw^d	So, I don't even know who your favorite team is, actually.	sd	I'm a Viking fan.

bk	Okay.	sv	And they haven't been doing too hot,

qy	Has Herschel Walker done much for them?	nn	No,

h	I don't know,	sd	I've never been over impressed with him.

h	But, I don't know.	qw	Well, who's the running,

sd	Emmett Smith,	b^m	Emmett Smith.

sd	I'm pretty impressed with him so far.	b	Yeah.

sd	and he was supposed to go.	no	I'm not sure.

x	,	qw	Who else is,

b	Yeah.	sd	I can't even think of the guy's name, either, the coach of the Vikings.

sd	I have no idea.	sd	Jerry Burns.

sd	No earthly idea.	sd	he was going to keep him as the coach somehow,

qy	did they make it to the play offs at all?	nd	Well, they started out really bad,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So they were in a shot to make the play offs

qy^g	Kind of like the cowboys,	ny	Yeah,

sd	I don't know about the Vikings .	b	Yeah.

sd	Just hadn't heard much about them lately.	sv	And the Cardinals were kind of like the Cowb ,

sv	he never really got in a game, never did a whole lot.	ad	don't made any excuses for him .

sv	and so, no one's going to have much faith in him any more.	b	Uh huh.

qw	who is it, Michael Irvin	ny	Uh huh.

qy^g	it was his shoulder, wasn't it, that he had the problems with?	no	I don't know .

sd	But anyway, they're trying to you know, keep him, from reinjuring anything, but anyway .	sd	But, well I got my thirty day notice yesterday.

qw	Thirty day notice for what?	sd	I'm done, where I work.

b	really.	sv	So, anyway, I guess we can't talk much more about that,

sd	I can't remember.	sd	I've always ran out of time ever since I've done this.

sd	I usually have, too .	sd(^q)	They always say you've talked your ten minute limit.

sv	so I guess we should talk about football a little bit longer just to be sure we got five minutes in.	sv	Make sure we get our cash flow.

qo	So other than the Vikings, who do you like?	nd	actually, when I was younger, I was a Cardinal fan, too.

bk	oh.	qh	Remember Jim Hart?

b	Yeah.	sd	I don't know who else I've ever.

qy^2	Back when they were in Saint Louis?	ny	Yes,

sv	Other than that, I mean, you know, you know, when you grow up in a city that has you know, one of the greatest football teams until the last few years, you kind of tend to get caught up in it.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	there's no question about that,

sv	I think tickets are,	qy^d	Again.

ny	Yeah.	qw	What are they going up to, thirty bucks or something?

sd	but obviously yeah, they're all going up, more or less is what it's going to do.	qy^d	So now the tickets even got lower than the lowest one last year.

sd	So maybe this year .	ba	That's interesting,

b	Uh huh.	sv	my own feelings about, capital punishment is I think it should be mandatory upon a third conviction felony.

aa	I do, too.	sv	Mandatory, I mean, summary execution, on the steps, that day.

sd	I think if it's a con , if it's a convicted, felon on parole and he goes out and commits another crime or kills somebody, you know, I, I feel the same way,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and he should be taken out .	sv	Well, I also firmly believe that no one is beyond reclamation.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, I do know that almost all people usually die before that point.

b	Uh huh.	sv	They just get too old.

b	Uh huh.	sd	as far as capital punishment, on it's own merits, I have the trouble with the way it's applied.

b	Right.	sv	Kill you. They will kill you.

b	Yeah.	sv	And if you're black and you kill a black guy, you know, it's, you know, two hundred hours of community service.

sv	you don't hear too much of those cases.	sv	Well, it's a social disease that we have called one upsmanship, you know.

b	Yeah.	sv	We're the majority,

aa	That's right.	sv	And you're the minority

b	Right.	sd	But the population of blacks in the military was about twenty two percent.

sd^e	it sure is.	sv	You know, but that's another issue altogether.

aa	it's,	sv	As far as capital punishment, I think that, ten years on death row is cruel and unusual punishment.

qh	because you know, if somebody has been convicted and has been sentenced to be put to death, how is it that they can appeal and appeal and appeal and get stays of execution?	sd	that goes back to when, America was a colony of England.

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	In England, you went to court, you were assumed guilty until proven innocent and once they found you guilty, you know, judge said, he's guilty, kill him.

b	Right.	sd(^q)	And he'll say, you know, hey, that guy did it, you know, not me.

b	Yeah.	sd	or he'll have somebody lie for him.

b	Yeah.	sv	but they do that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And the judicial mishap in this event would be, hey, you got the wrong guy.

b	Yep.	sd	they convicted him of a robbery that he could not physically have been able to commit.

b	Yeah.	sd	He was too far away when it happened.

b	Yeah.	^q	Big lips, flat nose, yep, that was him.

o	Okay.	b^m	Okay.

sv	Because they feel like so many of the politicians are like crooked, you know?	b	Uh huh.

sd	We vote every time.	aa	Well, there's no question it does make a difference.

b	Right.	sv	Because people have to vote in different areas

sv	And maybe let them have some mock, I mean you know elections and stuff and vote for different people in their classes and start really young.	aa	Absolutely.

ba	That's a real good idea.	sv	and they are doing that in a number of schools. However, probably not enough of them, country wide.

b	Right.	sv	How to say no to it and what have you.

ba	God.	sv	So it's now, to the forefront

b	Right.	sv	and we also don't make the issues perhaps in language that people fully understand them.

sd	but down here, Louisiana has a bad reputation for their politicians and all.	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	I mean, I'm sure you heard about some of ours.	na	Sure.

sd	And that's the reason I said maybe if you had something like a block party.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I mean it could be like a sign that they would put down at the end of your block. You know, or anything like that	b	Uh huh.

sv	One crook is as good as the other one.	b	Yeah.

sv	And they don't bother to listen to what any of them have to say.	b	Right.

sd	I don't care how small the ballot is, {E I mean, } if there's one thing, if there's one issue,	b	Uh huh.

sv	because the way I feel is if I don't vote, then I don't have any reason, to gripe.	qy^g	To complain about it, right?

na	Right.	b^m	Right.

sd	you know, but they didn't go vote.	aa	That's right.

sv	And, like you said, if they would start when little kids and start letting them vote and learn how to vote and all. and the importance of it because, okay, if you don't vote for your friend over here, well your friend's not going to have a chance.	aa	That's right.

sd	and you voted for like cheerleaders and different things like that	b	Yes.

sv	but they should start that a lot earlier.	aa	Yeah.

b	Right.	sv	and then it's too late to try to change them around at that point.

b	Yeah.	sv	But, everything should be started on the lower levels

b	Right.	sv	And perhaps it's because our campaigns have become so terribly expensive to run, that only the most wealthy can do so.

b	Right.	sv	And they're not always the best person for the job.

b	Right .	sv	But they have the money to be able to do it.

sv	And, okay, this candidate tells you some things that are going to happen	aa	Sure.

sv	and this candidate tells you some things.	b	Right.

sv	but they have to do whatever these people, whichever one the other people elect do.	b	Uh huh.

sv	but you're going to have to do what that person says,	aa	Yes.

sv	they would understand probably by the time they were in high school,	b	Right.

sv	they'd be ready to vote.	aa	That's right.

b	Yeah.	sv	Now some people object during primaries, having to declare a party, whether Republican or Democrat

b	Right.	sv	and you do that in the primary.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I don't know that, a lot of people vote in primaries for that very reason.

b	Yeah.	sv	And it's going to take these young

aa	I think that sounds great.	sv	you know, it's going to take a whole generation of my feeling, before that's going to be accomplished .

sv	Well, you know, they'd have to start when they're real young.	aa	That's right.

sd	the first time I voted, I never voted in high school because there was never anyone that showed us how to use the voting machines,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I didn't vote because anybody that went in there and they asked a question, all the other kids laughed at them.	b	Yeah.

^q	she don't even know how, wah, wah .	b	Right.

sd	And I mean it took such courage you wouldn't believe to go vote the first time because I was waiting for somebody to laugh at me because I didn't know how to work the machines.	b	Sure.

sd	I was a married person.	b	Uh huh.

sv(^q)	Where if they'd had a class or something or just a short time, you know, to, said okay, this is the way,	sv	Well, just the opportunity to try the voting machines,

sd(^q)	I said because I want him to know how to use one of these	b	Right.

sd(^q)	but I want to show him how to use it so that he'll be able to vote .	b	Yes.

sd	and now he's a registered voter.	ba	Good.

sd	But he would not vote before then.	b	Yeah.

sv	And, I mean, I think that's bad.	aa	Sure it is.

sd	they have bins	b	Yeah.

sd	and I think that's all they have.	bk	Oh.

qo	What about you guys?	sd	there is a lot of things that you can recycle down here, although the only thing I guess I wind up recycling religiously is, aluminum cans.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, we've got a couple of different places,

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah .

qy	For smashed cans?	nd	Well, actually, you have to put them in there unsmashed.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, when you do that it basically crushes them and then drops a penny down a little shoot.

ad	can you hold on for just a minute?	aa	Sure.

sd^t	I'm going to try pressing one again to make sure that I pressed it hard enough because, okay, just succeed .	b	Okay.

sd^e	well, I guess,	sd^t	Well, I heard it that time .

qy	Well, when you buy like, canned drinks and stuff like that, do they charge you for the deposit?	nn	no,

bf	so when you turn in the cans unsmashed, you're just, like, reimbursed.	b	okay.

bf	Type of thing.	b	Okay,

ba	That's sort of nice, though .	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So when we get like, a twelve pack, then that's like twelve cents back.

qy^d	so you guys can actually get ahead .	ny	Yeah .

sd	Like we can recycle, clear glass, brown glass, green glass. and milk jugs and, newspapers, you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	everyone does newspapers.	aa	Yeah,

sd	But, that kind of stuff.	b	Yeah.

sd	and they're not reimbursed by the people who are over them or something.	sv	Well, shoot, maybe what we ought to do is start sending unsmashed, Pepsi cans and whatever up there .

sd^t	they said that, ways, can encourage recycling,	sd	I, I tell you what really works, at least down here is, if there is even some money basically to take care of the gas to recycle it, you know what I mean, then people tend to do it.

b	Yeah,	sv	In other words, taking care of the environment is all well and good

b	Uh huh.	sv	but if it's going to cost you to take care of the environment, they're not quite as, likely to do it as if you get something back for it. You know.

aa	that's true.	sv	so, you know, if there are some energy savings or if there is some significant savings, anything that they can pass on to the consumer, you know, it kind of reminds me of using an A T M card, you know, to get money or doing your banking.

b	Yeah.	sv	You know, if it's free, people will use it,

aa	exactly.	b	You know.

b	Yeah.	sd	And, all that, because there was,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Now they're starting to recycle that stuff.

sv	And one way that we do it sort of in Iowa is that we can take some of our clothes to the consignment shops.	b	Yeah.

sv	and what you're going to basically donate to a Goodwill or whatever, anyways, you can get a little bit of money for.	b	Yeah.

sd	And so that's something that I've never,	b	Yeah.

sv	But that's one way to sort of get money and still recycle, I guess.	aa	Yeah,

qo	How do you feel about gun control?	sv	Well, I mean I don't think that guns should be outlawed

qy	Well, don't you think that you know, just having, you know, some, you know almost like a driver's license be required you know with stiff penalties if you are found with you know a gun that is not registered or you know that you are not licensed to carry.	ny	Yeah,

sd	There is no national,	sv	But, it's kind of like if you want a gun you can get a gun, especially if you have the money to pay for it.

sv	in most States as long as you aren't a convicted felon. You know or on probation or, you know, other obvious things like that.	b	Yeah.

sd	you, you know but have your legal right to get a gun.	sd	I didn't know that.

sd^e	I'd probably say about a five.	sd	That's where I would probably be .

sv	Seems like it's a good safe number to pick, you know.	sd	Well, I mean, I mean I don't really know how they can really enforce the laws any better

b	Uh huh .	sv	because I mean I do think that some people need them like, for protection and stuff

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I can understand them wanting to have them,

sv	the amount of violent crime has decreased by so much.	bh	It has?

sv	you know, I mean, the problem though, you know, since the United States had this, you know, pretty much unrestricted flow of guns going for so long that I think, you know, if you were introduced, you know, any controls, it would probably take a long while for them to take effect just because there is a glut of guns out there already.	b	Yeah.

sv	You know, so it's really kind of a complex problem.	qy	Well, is the crime that bad there in Atlanta?

sd	but I mean apparently we were ranked pretty high up.	b	Yeah

sd	I mean I think we have been like ranked in one of the top three for murders in the last few years.	sd	I don't know if Dallas is in the top three

b	Uh huh.	qy	but. Do you own a gun?

sd	Just for protecting myself. You know, from burglar type thing.	b	Uh huh.

sd	I do kind of live in the downtown area.	b	Yeah.

sv	I mean somebody is not going to break in, steal it, and you know, use it to mug someone, you know.	aa	That's true.

sv	You can sort of point it somewhere in the direction of you know whoever.	b	Yeah.

sv	then the actual shot doesn't go that far, you know, a wall will stop it pretty much.	sd	and, my Dad gave me a gun

b	Uh huh.	sd	but I never did go out and practice with it enough to feel comfortable with it

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I finally ended up giving it back to him.

sv	but you pick up the gun and point it at the person that person rushes you.	b	Yeah.

sv	And you know, you're pretty much dead you know. Because you've just told the person that you're about to kill them then, You know	b	Uh huh.

sv	and then you know if they manage to get the gun from you, you know their first reaction is going to you know, stop you.	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I just didn't want the responsibility.

qy	did it happen at a cafeteria or something?	ny	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I would be scared selling guns to people.

sv	and not only that, but the, repair capability of, service departments and dealerships was equally dismal	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, it seemed that the only way I could reliably take care of my car was to repair it myself which is not my cup of tea.	b	Yeah.

br	Pardon?	qy^r	Do you have a car?

sd	Well, at that time, actually, I had a Volkswagen Rabbit	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it wasn't as bad.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And it's wonderful.	b	Yeah.

qo	So, what do you have?	sd	I have a Pontiac Six Thousand.

sv	All the more reason to, have a Honda.	aa	Yeah.

qy	so you bought a Pontiac?	nn	huh uh.

qw	how old is the car?	sd	eighty seven.

bf	So apparently it was the same one that was on there.	aa	more than likely.

bf	and that was it.	aa	That was it, probably.

sv	So what's the solution to that? I guess find a reputable service,	sv	and you can hardly find one, you know.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I know he will tell me the truth.

b	Right.	sd	I just pay for the parts

ba	Well that's wonderful.	aa	Yeah.

sv	You're lucky.	aa	Yeah,

bh	really?	ny	Yeah.

sv	The stationary bike is so, boring.	^2	Boring.

sd	But it's definitely a task.	bh	You think so?

sd	but I do it because I have to not because I want to .	sd	I bought a stationary bike,

aa^r	yeah.	sd	And I haven't figured how to get that soft,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I love it.

bh	Really?	sd	I just love it.

qy	So is it just women that go there?	ny	Yeah.

sd	but I still don't like other people watching me.	sd	I like to be able to sweat, have my hair a mess.  feel that, okay fine, if my bathing suit slips a little bit I don't have to be conscious of it being a little bit too low.

b	Right.	sd	And my bathing suit's just one piece,

b	Uh huh.	sv	And it's just, I don't know, it's, it's a total free relaxation.

ba	That's, that's great.	ny	yeah.

qy	Do they have a pool	ny	yeah.

sd	I've heard that that's really good for you to do.	sd	It pushes you because you're pushing against the water in itself.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So it is like double strenuous.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So you're doing it yourself.

qy^g	So you don't really feel like you're really working that hard, do you?	nn	Huh uh.

qy	When you're in the water?	nn	Huh uh.

sd	I never would have thought of that.	sd	Well, a lot of people wear those little, terry cloth with rubber soles on the bottom. Especially around the pool.

qy	Like wat , Are they water shoes?	ny	Yeah.

bk^r	okay.	sv	no big deal one way or the other.

ba	that's really funny .	sd	But, I never think about it until after you go there for about a week, your toes, you start getting blisters anyway.

qw	if you're doing it on a regular basis, how often do you go?	sd	I try to make it at least three times a week.

b	Yeah.	sd	For a while I was doing it every day. Just, going, five days a week.

sd	I mean it's, it's not a question of whether I want to, you know.	sd	When I was working up at, The Summit, here in Plano, I'd leave there,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I'd be at the swimming pool by four o'clock. actually about four thirty because they start at five to six,

b	Uh huh.	sd	Because no matter what I did or how I did it, I invariably got myself wet.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But the water only comes up basically anywhere from your waist to your, chest, I'd say.

b	Yeah.	sd	So I mean, it's your choice where you want to go,

fa	Well, I'm sorry .	bd	That's okay.

qy	Did you ever try that?	ng	I have a, I have a bad back,

bk	okay.	sd	It's like I can walk,

sv	Then that would,	aa	it will bother me.

qy^g	I guess then the water aerobics would be probably the best thing for you, wouldn't it?	nd	Well, what pushed me that way though, basically was the fact that when I went in there, is wasn't for the water aerobics.

bk	Oh.	sd(^q)	And, she said, Hey, go for the swimming pool.

ba	Wow.	sd	I said, okay, because I'm not a swimmer.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I like water.

b	Yeah.	sd	But I found that this worked really well.

b	Oh.	sd	I dropped, I'd say almost twenty pounds. Just by watching what I ate.

ba	Wow.	sd	And they fix you up with a diet, which worked real good.

qw	What if you're already on one?	qw	What?

qy^g	I mean, when you go in there, they wouldn't make you do theirs. Would they?	nn	no,

bk	Okay.	sd	See when this one down here opened up, I joined as a V I P.

qy	Is that what you're saying?	ny	yeah.

bk	okay.	sd	I just went and took the, because they were offering it as an opening benefit,

ba	Wow.	sd	Like I said, I like it.

b	Oh .	sd	And I love it.

sv	That would be really nice .	co	let me reword that,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I knew I was pushing too far.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But usually, when I go into the hot tub before I go swimming, or when I come out, I'm totally relaxed when I go home.

bf	So you really do enjoy your exercise then, since your,	aa	It's fun.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I've enjoyed that, watching how well I can walk up and down stairs.

sd	I wanted, I wanted to get one of those steppers when I bought the bike,	sv	But most of the others to me are very dull.

qw	Which one do you feel is better, since you use them both?	sd	I get bored very easily.

b	Uh huh.	sd	With the stepper, you are conscious of what you are doing because you're basically watching each step as it gets harder and down.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it would depend upon which one you want.

bh	really?	sv	Because it all depends, you know, for everyone their own what they want to do.

b	Uh hum.	aa	so I can sit there and read and listen to music, like what you said,

o	Okay,	qy	Do you have any pets?

na	we got two cats.	b^m	Two cats.

sd	you know, my family had cats when we were growing up the whole time until my Mom developed an allergies,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I like them.	b	Yeah,

sd	see, I'm not a dog person at all .	sd	I'm a dog person.

sd	I was allergic to dogs when I was a kid, in fact,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I may still be,	qy^d	But not cats.

sd	I wonder sometimes .	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	It was like, that could be it.	sv	The thing I don't like about dogs sometimes is that the house will just reek, of the dogs, and constantly .

sv	but it's not quite the same thing.	aa	Yeah,

sv	all cats are indoor cats,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and, you know, you know, they, they make their mess in the cat pan which is,	^2	Limited.

sv	I mean, they got great stuff out now for cleaning cats' pans .	bh	really?

sd	But now you get these liners, that is garbage bags, you know,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and that's it, .	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and what we used to do was just put, newspaper on the bottom and then put cat litter

sv	Same idea .	sd	Then I would do it, you know, everyday or two days so I would clean that pan very, very rarely,

qy	Everyday?	sd	and so it wasn't so bad.

b	I see.	sd	it just never started smelling,

b	Uh huh.	sd	, all of her animals that she ever had were adopted.

b	Uh huh.	aa	I that true,

b	Uh huh.	sd	It was her ex boyfriend and, you know, just was not mature enough to keep the dog, didn't realize how much work it was

b	Uh huh.	sd	And she's just so kindhearted that she just takes all the animals

qy	So, you don't have anything right now?	nn	No,

qy^d	except the kid,	na	right, ,

sd	we can leave them for a weekend as long as we put plenty of food out,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and you know, we couldn't do that with a dog.	aa	That's, yeah, really true.

sv	Well , that's, That's, pampering the petals .	sd	and, you know, they sort of cause trouble around the house and things like that.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, I killed that one within a very short amount of time.

sv	they don't, they can't fetch, you know,	b	Right.

sd	I think we had fish when I was a kid	sd	My brother had fish when I was a kid

b	Oh.	sd	and one of the fish was missing

b	Oh.	sd	it was not gross,

b	Oh.	sd	Trying to remember we had a dog for a while,

b	Uh huh.	sd	but because of that we didn't have very many pets afterwards

b	Uh huh.	aa	like you say, they're not the most exciting pet to have.

sv	It's not as much fun.	sd	Well, a friend of mine had, an eel,

bh	, an eel?	^h	I forget what type of fish it was,

sv	now we really get sick .	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	I could see having, maybe some of the tropical fish, that are really, really pretty

sd	Like, I remember a friend of mine at work telling me that at his frat in college that they had a tank of piranha, and, you know, used to drop mice in	b	Uh huh.

sd	these aren't cats, , you know,	b	Yeah.

sv	this is gross.	aa	Yeah,

ny	Yep.	sv	I mean, I guess that's fine if you have a mouse problem at your frat house, and your things destroyed the mice.

sv	well, a cat will do the same trick .	^h	Let's see ,

sd	I had a friend in col , I had a friend in college who had a pet rat for a while.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she got it from the psych department.	b	Yeah ,

ba	Whoops .	sd	And they had misclassed the sex of back there

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then she grew to be, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know how much,

sv	I mean, you know, if you get them young and everything before they go, kind of nuts,	b	Yeah

sd	but I could see getting one from birth and everything.	b	Yeah,

sd	and they tell me the same thing.	b	Uh huh.

sv	again it gets into vivant much fun, , you know what, I guess they can be.	sv	Actually it was more fun than you would think. Yeah, starting from the beginning

b	Okay.	sd	And so it's almost impossible to,

b	Right.	sd	I mean, people do,

sv	plus, I mean, the pooper scooper one New York,	aa	yeah,

sd	I was living in northern Jersey when that law came through, remember hearing all about it,	b	Uh huh.

qy^d	we were wondering if they had any special law for the horses in Central Park.	^h	Right,

aa	Of course, not.	sd	they have, the bags behind them

b	Hit the bags.	sd	but, gosh, I can't even walk by Central Park yeah when summertime,

sd	last time I was there was fall so probably wasn't that bad .	sv	well, it's not that long ago.

sd	I mean, it was in the, yeah, it was almost like October of eighty five,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I think was the last time I was up there and at Center Park.	b	Yeah.

sd	and I used to go up and visit her.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	they're just mutts,	b	Uh huh.

sd	my wife got them from, friend of hers at work and everything, you know, you know, as kittens,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they're sisters,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the other one is named Holly.	b	Uh huh.

na	yeah, both females, they're both spayed, or whatever it is, neutered, you know, ,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they're both declawed at least on the front claws.	b	Uh huh.

sv	We don't even have to cook dinner anymore.	aa	Yes.

sv	the kids maybe on the average get, something like thirty seconds of quality time with the parents.	sd	That's what I've heard too.

sv	I don't quite understand it, although I think probably the worst thing that's happening at least the modern world today, is television.	b	Yeah.

sv	and there's also some, I think, poorer lifestyles illustrated but simply because it dominates so much discussionary time.	b	Right.

sv	It's so darned easy to turn the thing on.	aa	I know it.

sd	So I refuse to have one in the house.	bh	really?

ny	Yeah.	ba	Well good for you.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But, I still haven't done it yet.

sv	and you don't have to worry about them.	aa	That's true

sv	But I don't think it's too good.	aa	I don't think so either.

sv	and, you know, whenever you're with your kids, you want to interact with them rather than just ignore them.	qy	Do you keep your kids, active in sports or anything

sd	I guess our big outlet is music.	bk	okay.

sd	and our, nine year old daughter plays cello	bk	Okay.

sv	I guess that's not a big surprise.	aa	No.

sv	But I imagine with infants most of your time is sort of spent taking care of them rather than interacting with them. Although,	aa	Yeah.

sd	and I still try to read to them, although our son is not liking that anymore.	b	Yeah.

qy	Have you ever seen that yet?	^h	Sleep book,

sd	I tell you I read that book to my kids so many times I almost have the thing memorized.	sd	We've got quite a few of DOCTOR SEUSS' books.

sd	Well, I think his sleep book is my favorite.	bh	really?

ny	Uh huh.	b	Well, yeah

b^r	uh huh.	sd	And so I've put a lot more emphasis on that, on my kids to try and,

qw	So how much time do you think you spend with your kids on the average per each day?	sd	I probably spend an hour or two.

ba	that's great.	sd	My wife works at night,

qw	how old are your kids again?	sd	They're two and one.

b^m	Two and one.	b	Uh huh.

sv	that's for sure .	aa	Yeah .

qo	what do you do this weekend?	sd	Well, pretty much spent most of my time either in the yard or at nurseries buying stuff for the yard.

qo	what do you have planned for your yard?	sd	Well, we just bought our house, last July,

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, we're in the process of, revitalizing the whole situation.

qw	What part of the state do you live in?	sd	I live in Dallas.

sd	My wife and I, we live in Dallas too,	b	Okay.

sd	we're going to have to do a lot of lawn and garden work there.	b	Yeah.

sd	in Plano, and the soil has such a high clay content, that, I went to use my dad in law's tiller and it about for my arms off, sockets .	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then when it gets wet, you know, you don't even want to get out in the yard,	b	Right.

sd	it's horrible.	b	Right.

qy	where you live is there a real high, alkaline or ash content	ny	Yeah,

sd	I know right where that's at.	b	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and then it's solid rock from then on down,

bh	Really.	ny	Yeah,

qy	is it limestone underneath?	ny	Yeah,

qo	How do you put trees in there?	^h	we're just happy that there's trees already there so far,

bk	Oh.	sv	and it makes for a different challenge,

b	Yeah.	sd	and, I never really, messed with anything, gardening or anything like that until now,

b	Uh huh.	sd(^q)	and the first thing the old guy there at the stand asked is what part of town we lived in because he said, I've got a dozen different varieties

sd	and they, they turned out pretty poor.	b	Yeah.

sd	I wi , I just wish I'd known , the variety and everything.	b	Yeah

sd	and, I mean, they just grow so beautifully.	b	Yeah,

qw	Like what type roses?	sd	a few different, hybrid tea type varieties.

b^m	hybrid teas.	b	Yeah.

sd	they're kind of like the bush roses.	b	Okay.

sd	But, I don't know I think it only has about five or six more years to go because it's a really old bush,	b	Yeah.

sd	and the roses just seem to survive just fine there.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	we've got the direct sun in front

qr	have you, done a lot of tree surgeon work on your trees or not?	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	we've been pretty lucky on that.

sd	just if you want a lot of, you know, light for underneath, that may be all right because because we have some, we have some old fruit trees.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We have a plum that's just about ready to go,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they really need pruning.	b	Yeah.

sv	It just seems like that even, you know, pruning once a year is really not enough	aa	That's true.

qw	but, what kind of, what kind of grass are you growing?	sd	It's, bermuda.

b^m	Bermuda.	b	Yeah.

sd	I've been trying, a mixture of, the bermuda and the rye,	b	Okay.

sv	but it really doesn't.	b	Right.

sv	A lot of, silt that comes in it just doesn't seem to hold it very well.	b	Yeah.

sv	but the rye does really well. Especially during the wintertime.	b	Okay.

sv	but, boy, once it gets over seventy, seventy five degrees it just dries up, shrivels up and dies.	b	Uh huh.

sd	well, it's already been built and everything.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, this is out in west Texas,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they just, , have some problems, big time problems	ba	that's it .

sd	they just, so they just washing , watching their lawn just blow away.	b	Yeah.

sd	They have about two or three acres of land on lake front property, on the side of a hill.	ba	wow.

sd	I mean, you can see the house from, you know, miles away,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, they save a lot of energy	b	Yeah.

sv	It's going to be from the ground up.	b	Yeah.

sv	The whole way.	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean, have the, all they have are mesquite and cottonwoods,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, it's all on Lake Greenbelt , that property out there.	b	Okay.

sd	they have all the water they want,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they can pump water up from the shore,	b	Okay.

sd	they have to pay like some kind of fee per year.	b	okay.

sd	But, right now though I think they're just, they're trying to get the trees planted and everything.	b	Sure.

sd	and some places, they, they really nail them for tax.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, I mean, your talking what, just several hundred dollars a year in property taxes.	ba	Wow.

sv	it's ridiculous.	aa	That really is,

sd	because even though it's far out there, it's just that Lake Greenbelt , you know, they, they try to do it just from selling the water.	b	Uh huh.

sd	But, the water usage, you know, they try to limit, even though there's three or four streams that flow into it, people still use it enough like in towns like Clarendon and other areas where they irrigate.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, the irrigation because it's gotten so bad the past few years,	aa	Yeah,

sd	they don't even start growing until May, May or April, like after it's been raining for a few months.	aa	Yeah,

sd	they don't do anything.	b	Uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, you know, we're trying to decide what to, what to put on one side of the house and things like that,

sd	my wife and I, on the, on the south side of our house we planted some gardenias.	b	Uh huh.

sd	but during the fall when it stopped, when, the rain let off just a little bit I mean, it just dried up.	b	Yeah.

fp	how are you today?	fp	I'm great .

sd	Well as a matter of fact before we started this conversation I was working on my P C at home.	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you have one?	nn	No,

b	Yeah.	sd	but I do not have one of my own at home.

sd	but it is the I B M clone.	b	Uh huh.

sd	It's not the T I P C from back when.	b	Right.

aa	Right.	sd	It's probably pretty close to what I have, because I have the same kind of thing at work.

sd	that's what we have.	qy	Do you use it a lot at home?

sd	and, but I work at home.	b	Uh huh.

nd	So I use it for that quite often.	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I do a lot of that work on it as well.	sd	I was amazed when I took our taxes to our tax person

b	Uh huh.	sv	And the, software that does the taxes is just incredible.

aa	it is.	sd	I expected to go and, you know, drop the stuff off and go back two weeks later.

sd	you can.	sd	It was great.

aa	that's right.	ba	That's wonderful.

sd	we didn't decide to get one until I started working at home.	b	Uh huh.

sd	for us it really took, you know, a business application to justify the expense of it.	b	Uh huh.

b	Really.	sv	it just seems like a lot of trouble for something at home.

sv	She could just as easily do those things by hand.	aa	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	Now I know my boss has bought the software, that his checkbook is on on a disk,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he goes in and types his checks on the screen and then hits print,

ba	my gosh.	sd	and he just whips, out, you know,

b	Right.	sd	and he ripped them off and stuck them in the envelopes

sv	And you know there's not going to be those adding mistakes that we all make.	aa	That's exactly why.

sv	Not unless somebody really enjoys it. Or perhaps is using it for education.	b	Right.

sd	A little Sesame Street one	b	Yeah,

sd	and he really likes that one.	sv	As he grows up he'll be even more and more too.

aa	That's right.	ba	That'll be great.

sv	especially now when they get to junior high school, and even college.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she had to have a computer.	b	Really.

sd	I mean, it was like a necessity.	b	Well, yeah,

sd	She couldn't imagine going through college without a computer.	sd	Well I'm going through right now.

b	Right.	sd	and so I'm up here, you know, nights and weekends you know, working on the P C up here, you know, typing stuff.

qy^d	any more I don't even know if a college kid would have a typewriter .	no	I don't know.

nn	no.	nn^m	No,

b	Uh huh.	sd	I don't know what they used to do before they,

sd	and then he went on and got his Master's degree while I was working.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And I'm the better typist, of us,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and we just had a regular old typewriter, not even a correcting one back then.	qy^d	 and you had to type all of his papers.

sd	but I typed his Master's papers and things on a typewriter.	ba	gosh,

sd	boy, to have a computer back then.	sv	cut your time in half at least.

aa^m	At least.	b^m	At least.

sv	on a computer you take it out, bleep, print it out, fine.	b	Uh huh.

b	Right.	aa	That's right.

b	yeah.	sv	But it's amazing, you know,

sv	The first time.	aa	Yeah,

sv	That's probably one of the problems and frustrations that it's brought about, because people do feel like, well, we can just change it.	^q	Well, we'll try this out and see what it looks like.

b^m	Yeah,	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sv	but, you know, it gets a little out of hand sometimes.

b	yeah.	qh	Are they typos?

b	Uh huh.	sd	And there's like one week, she did retypes on ninety percent of what she typed you know,

ba	I believe it.	sv	and you know, it's ridiculous

sv	Well, it's good that she does that, I mean, bring it to people's attention.	aa	Well, that's exactly right.

b	Right,	sv	So. Anyway, you know, maybe it'll help in some way,

sv	Especially when they're in school, I think they would get a lot out of it.	aa	I do too,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, like, you have your own little code name, you know,

b	Ooh.	sd	So, we were each limited to like twenty minutes a day, you know,

sv	that still could add up.	aa	it added up big.

b	Yeah.	sv	I'm sure we would not have been allowed to do that under normal situations, you know.

fc	Have a nice day.	fc	You too.

fc	Bye bye.	fc	Bye.

qw	Where do you live?	sd	in the Houston area.

sd	But I'm now in Palo Alto, California which is, I think, the recycling capital of the world.	ba	that's great.

sd	and I'm, in full, support of all of them.	sd	we are too.

sd	but the, garbage men, come by, on your regular garbage day and pick up the recycling out at the curb.	b	Uh huh.

sd^e	we have burlap sacks,	b	Oh.

sd	and they give us one for aluminum and, steel, one for metals, and one for glass,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the garbage men come by and, collect them and leave us new bags when ours get old and ratty or leave the ones if they're still in good shape.	ba	that's great.

sv	And, it really pays for itself because, then the city, gets the money from the recycling.	b	Uh huh.

sd	At my office, we have two big cardboard boxes in the library where everybody goes to pick up their mail,	b	Yes.

sd	so anything like manuscripts or computer paper or so , things like that goes in those boxes,	b	Uh huh.

sv	It just seems like such a waste.	aa	it does.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And so, you know, you could also apply the magazines toward that.

sv	We have got so little landfill space left that we're going to run out before the end of this decade.	aa	Yes.

sv	And it's really going to be a mess when they have to start hunting for places to put the things.	aa	I know it.

sd	Now we can put all our yard clippings out.	b	Oh.

sd	they're about four feet high.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And you get them for I think it's about fifty cents apiece at the grocery store you, usually buy them by the dozen.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then you put all your yard clippings and, leaf rakings and anything that will be compostible .	b	uh huh.

sd	and they, the garbage men also pick those up on Thursdays.	ba	that's great.

sd	and at the end of every year, they sell all the composts to nurserymen and to local people who want to put it on their flower beds .	b	Right,

b	Yeah.	sd	because, you know, I've talked to many people

sv	If they make it so that it's not a horrendous inconvenience, I think most people would.	aa	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	But now, you know, I don't mind as long as things are getting recycled, you know, that we don't get reimbursed.

sv	I think it's, to me more of a convenience to have them come pick it up, then to get that two cents when you take it to the store.	b	Uh huh.

sd	We still have bins at the grocery stores where you can turn in bottles and cans, for cash.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But so few people, have enough to make that worthwhile you'd spend more in gas getting down there then you get back.	aa	Right.

qy	Now do the grocery stores in Houston have recycling for their paper bags and plastic bags?	na	I know the one that we use, has, recycling for the bags.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they're promoting the cloth bags. You know, the reusable cloth bags.

sd	well, we can get a nickel apiece for any paper bags that we bring back to be reused.	ba	that's great.

sd	They can just subtract it from your bill,	b	Oh.

sd	and they have a giant bin by the front door for the plastic bags,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they say, as long as it's clean they don't want a plastic bag that's full of goop .	b	Yes.

sd	so right outside the back door, I've got the two burlap bags hung up for the cans and bottles,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and now we've got the bag for the plastic bags .	ba	I understand,

b	yeah.	sd	And he'll go pick them up because he just can't stand that.

ba	that's great.	sd	we have all our piles of recyclables also.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I remember at Christmas the only thing that I'm,

sd	they just put all our Christmas trees in the regular, compost, pickup	b	Uh huh.

sd	so they did say that you had to put it out within, I think it was, three weeks after, Christmas.	b	Uh huh.

sd	So, you know , if we have branches or something, they have to be cut in four foot lengths,	b	Uh huh.

sd	but otherwise, they have to be in one of their paper bags.	bf	Well, that sounds like you all really have a great system worked out there.

sd(^q)	the week after Christmas they left a plastic bag on everybody's front doorknob with a little note on it saying, we're trying something new next week only, if you have any, of those little, Styrofoam peanuts that, any of your Christmas presents were packed in, put them in this bag and leave it out with your recycling	b	Uh huh.

^q	and we'll, take all of those back and try to recycle them.	b	Right.

sd	That was just a one time thing right after Christmas.	sv	but, something does need to be done about the Styrofoam that,

sv	Well, those things must take up a huge amount of space in landfills.	aa	yeah,

sv	They don't mash .	aa	No.

sv	And they stay forever.	aa	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and I think that would be great if they could get something organized along those lines.

sv	they really have to rely on businesses that generate a lot of that stuff.	b	Right.

sv	and you're not going to bother if you have one bag full, to drive all the way to some recycling center to turn in just your little plastic peanuts .	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	I know like our cafeteria here uses a lot of Styrofoam

sd	and then, your supposed to keep it recycled every day.	ba	Well, that's good.

b	Yeah.	sv	they should last awhile .

sv	Well, let us hope that everybody's going to be paying more attention to this and that we will get, better reuse of things	sv	I believe we are.

b	Yep.	sv	And so it will be good, in the long run.

aa	It sure will.	fc	Well, I enjoyed it.

qw	How do you usually keep up with current events?	sd	Normally I listen to C N N or HEADLINE NEWS about an, hour a day,

sd	So, I try to catch that, if nothing else.	aa	That's true,

qo	how about you?	sd	On the whole, I'm pleased when I have an opportunity to hear just the facts.

b	Right.	sd	I think I'm fed up with trite.

sv	I don't really need their help to do that.	sv	I, we're certainly in agreement there.

sv	I don't think radio is as bad to do that as T V is.	sv	Radio seems to have a full platter or full plate of different things that they need to get done.

b	Right.	sd	I don't know which that answer is.

sd	but I don't anymore, maybe once or twice a year.	sd	Well, I used to watch SIXTY MINUTES until they did two programs, , that I knew both the people and the incidences,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I knew that they had presented an extremely slanted viewpoint, that was, in my estimate, nowhere near truth but was much better for ratings.

b	Yes.	sd	And it, ever since that time I just don't watch.

sd	So, I started questioning just how bias they really were,	qw^d	I don't know how old you are,

sd	I did grow up with David Brinkley.	sv	Well, Brinkley was sort of trying to be in the mold, of Cronkite

b	Uh huh.	sv	and he did a pretty good job.

sd	I frequently disagree with his commentaries,	sv	Well, once they've reported the facts, all they can offer is an opinion anymore.

qw	What did you think of the news coverage of the war?	sd	Well, I almost felt like it was too much.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I spent a number of years in the service as an intelligence analyst,

bh	Really?	sv	and I don't need their fill ins, you know .

qy	Did that help you understand a lot what was going on your prior experience with the military did,	ny	Yes,

qy^d	I wondered if it would help you sometimes fill in the gaps or recognize discrepancies that people like myself might not pick up on.	nd	Well, I think, my background is probably what absolutely turned me off with SIXTY MINUTES.

qw	What weekly, magazine do you look at,	sd	I like U S NEWS and WORLD REPORT.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I believe in giving anything a chance.

aa	Sure.	sd	but I keep coming back to that one,

qrr	or like, does it give, I guess, little encapsulated reports and then a few big stories?	sd	It's primarily, a few big stories and then lots of high level reports.

b	Yeah.	^q	here's what went on in Asia over the past week,

sv	That sounds good if you were short on time, you could get a summary real quick.	sv	in the interest of efficiency we all have to find ways,

b	Right.	sd	and it's one of those that I can read either an article or a couple of pages of those brief excerpts in the time frame that I'm going to spend in there.

b	Right.	sd	And it just seems to fit nicely, so that I can get it read in about three days.

sd	So, we decided to try to bring one in that was a little bit better for us, so to speak.	sv	Well, to broaden your horizons, make you think about different things anyway.

sv	It can't hurt, .	sv	Well, anytime that we stop and think it can't hurt.

sd	So, I don't like to go the whole day without hearing anything.	sd	I'm with you,

qy	do you have that?	nn	No.

sd	So, that's, an interesting alternative occasionally that I like to use.	ba	Well, it does sound very interesting,

sd	It, It really is, it really is nice, I mean, because it gives you a wide variety of things you can call and talk, and find out about.	sd	maybe our phone company out here will get around to, offering something like that.

o	Okay.	sv	Well, it's not often you get, many women interested in football .

br	I'm sorry, what?	qy^r	Do you follow football very much?

sd^e	I haven't recently,	sd	Well we can talk about something else.

nn^r	no.	b^m	No,

br	What's that?	qy^d	Kids are out.

qy	Are you married?	ny	Yeah,

bh	really.	ny	Yeah.

qy	So do you like football?	no	I follow the Cowboys

sd	the same here .	b	Yeah.

qy	Do you live in Dallas?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	but I haven't been to any games recently.

bh	Really?	ny	Yeah.

nn	huh uh.	sd	it's pretty nice.

sd	we decided just to watch them at home .	ba	That's good.

ny	Yeah.	b^m	yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	That's about the extent of it.

sd	so I'm more into college football than professional, I think.	b	I see.

sd	I'm at B Y U.	bk^m	B Y U,

b	Yeah,	qw	Leslie, what are you studying?

sd	Nursing.	b^m	Nursing.

b	Yeah.	sd	My mom's an L V N.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah.

no	but I don't know.	b	Uh huh.

ba	Wow.	ny	Yeah,

qy	Is she a nurse in Dallas?	nn	No,

bk	Oh.	sd	but, she's been working on a late shift.

b	Uh huh.	sd	She works the graveyard shift.

ba	Wow.	sd	And she really enjoys it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and she's really enjoying herself.

ba	Well, that's great.	ba	Well, good luck to you in pursuing your nursing degree.

ft	thanks .	sd	Hope you'll like it.

b	Yeah.	qy	Do you plan on staying in the Dallas area?

sd	Right now I'm in Utah, of course.	b	uh huh .

sd	I'd like to go back.	b	Yeah,

qy	Are you in San Antonio?	nn	No,

bk	okay.	sd	but I'm originally from San Antonio

b	Right.	sv	So if ever wanted, you know, pursue anything more than your nursing degree, that'd be the place to do it.

sd	my brother in law, is in the medical profession, I mean, he's at medical school in San Antonio right now.	ba	great.

b	Yeah.	fc	Well, like I said, good luck to you.

fc	Thanks.	fc	All right,

fc	All right.	fc	Okay.

o	Okay.	b^m	Okay,

sd	I'm in Dallas, Texas.	bk	okay.

qo	What about yourself?	sd	Well, I'm also in Dallas.

bk	Okay.	sd	The reason that I ask is the two conversations I've had, have been out of state.

b	Uh huh.	qy	But, have you always lived here in Dallas

sd^e	I've lived here for almost five years now.	bk	I see.

sd	and I'm originally from Boston.	qy^d	well, you are seeing quite a different climate and quite a different neighborhood.

sd	but I like it.	qy^d	You probably have enjoyed getting away from the snow.

sd	So I like it here.	bk	Yeah.

sv	It's nice.	ba	Well, that's good.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Around in Texas

b	Uh huh.	h	But, I don't know,

aa	I know.	sd	I live, over in the Lake Highlands area if you're familiar with that.

ad	tell me where that is,	aa	Okay.

sd	but I don't know it by that name.	sd	This is pretty well where L B J and Audelia, Skillman cross.

b	Sure.	sd	We're just north of, White Rock Lake.

ba	That's a nice area.	sd	Well, we have some very nice homes here in this area.

b@	 that's quite a range.	aa	Yes,

b	yeah.	qo	How about you?

sd	I'm just north of Addison Airport up on the tollway.	bk	Okay.

sd	I mean, we've got houses two streets away that are probably around seventy, eighty thousand	b	Uh huh.

sd	so I don't I don't even know how high those go,	b	Okay.

sv	but some of those are pretty big.	aa	Yes,

sd	They'd all be pretty similar to one another within a couple miles.	sv	Well, we have suffered from real lack of land use planning in Dallas.

b	Yeah.	sv	Not as bad as Houston,

sd	I've noticed that.	qr	Well, now, do you live in a home, or zero lot home,

sd	but it had existed for three years.	bk	Okay.

sd	So the whole block was all foreclosed.	b	Oh.

sd	And, so, some were vacant for quite a while before you know, they finally sold them because there were so many.	qy	Well, was your house in good shape,

sd^e	the only thing that we were worried about was the air conditioner because they'd have it just running constantly with the doors and windows open .	bh	it was?

sd	So you know, we bargained to get an extra warrantee on that.	b	I see.

sv	it's just a money pit. Really is.	aa	Yes,

b@	So . Uh huh.	sd	where I live is a house that's seventeen years old when I bought it.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I'm not sure what happened,

ba	no.	sd	I, I found a lot of things,

ad	Tell me what you like to do.	sd	Well, I collect antique tools, for one thing, well, I'm sort of in an antique business,

ba	wonderful.	sd	And, I'm building a log house at a farm that I have in East Texas, which is a hundred miles from here.

ba	Wonderful.	b	Yeah,

qy	Are you close to getting it done?	ny	Yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	you know, of course there's still a lot of work to be done,

qy	Are you going to move your whole family over there then?	nn	No,

sv	kind of your getaway place.	aa	Yeah,

qy	and it's pretty flat there?	ng	Well, it's kind of, hilly,

sd	and the one in Dallas is the one that got me to doing this	b	Yeah.

sd	I liked the hills and the trees,	b	Yeah,

qy^g	and you've always, lived in Texas, have you?	ny	Yeah,

bf	Born and raised Texan,	aa	Yeah.

sd	My brother in law works for the University, in Dallas.	qw	Wh , at which one?

sd	University of Texas in Dallas.	bk	okay

b	Yeah.	sd	it's just north of me here.

sd	so, it's been a real interesting thing for them .	ba	That's great.

sv	but maybe some day they can get closer,	b	Well, yeah,

sd	we'll see.	sv	Pretty good trip.

sd	and, I substitute at the schools part time.	ba	that's great.

sd	so I reluctantly gave that career up and am just substituting at the school,	aa	No, kidding.

sd	I'm around my kids	qy^g	That's pretty easy substituting isn't it?

sd	I do lots of cross stitching when I have time	b	Ooh.

ba	and that's pretty fun.	ba	That's great.

sd	I play tennis.	sd	I love tennis too

bh	do you?	sd	and I ski,

sd	We snow ski at Mount Bachelor mostly in Oregon,	ba	that's great.

qy	have you ever been there?	nn	No,

ba	Wonderful place.	sd	I've skied in Colorado

qw	Where in Colorado?	sd	I've been to Telluride which is on the west side and, Copper,

b^r	yes.	sd	Copper is kind of my favorite up there. Breckenridge and Keystone.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I guess those are the only places I've skied up there.

sd	I can hardly wait to get up there.	sd	Me, too.

sd	We're to get one to three inches tonight.	ba	gee,

sd	so of course I'm a real Seahawks fan	b	Yeah.

sv	and, going over that pass is just a real nightmare.	ba	I can imagine, my lord.

sd	my children all ski	ba	super.

sd	since I went to school,	qo	What about Utah?

sd	I keep hearing these marvelous things about Deer Valley and,	b	Yeah,

t3	don't, Adam, City,	sd	Always want to go to Canada Canada to Banff or somewhere like that .

qy	And your kids all ski?	ng	not all of them .

b	Uh huh.	sd	my kids are all grown.

b	Uh huh.	sd	But my youngest son is a skier.

sd	Well, my boys are at the point where they scare their mommy to death.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	Well, I found it interesting that they started off with a problems of immigration in America and then went back and said, well, if there is a problem, what should we do about it?	b	Right .

qy	Do you feel there's a problem with immigration in America?	na	I think there's some problems,

sd	I'm a first generation American.	b	Okay.

sd	So I'm, from immigrant parents . Or an immigrant mother anyway.	qw	where did you come from?

sd	Poland.	bk	Okay.

sd	And that was, you know, prior to World War Two.	b	Uh huh.

aa	But it's interesting that, you know, with the topic I think I agree with you.	b	Yeah.

sv	There needs to be more of an open policy.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, our Irish came and, you know, built the towns and, did labor.	aa	Yep.

qy	are you from Texas	ng	I'm from Pennsylvania.

bk	Okay.	b	Yeah.

ba	Well, that will be interesting.	b	Right,

sd	Because we have just, had a Naturalization Act where the Mexicans that were residents in Texas, I'm from Texas have become citizens now.	b	Uh huh.

qo	What do you think about that?	sv	I think that's all right.

sd	Well, I agree with it wholeheartedly.	b	Uh huh.

sd	The only thing is I've got to share with you, my background is from New Jersey.	b	Uh huh.

sd(^q)	So, when you were giving your answer I was thinking, is this a Texan I'm talking to? .	nn	No,

sv	Because Texan philosophy is a little different.	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	and he was always on pretty good terms with them.

b	Yeah,	sd	my sister just had a baby

qy^d	well, then you have first in the experience on immigration.	ny	Yeah.

ba	Well, that is interesting.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Well, I wonder, you know, even with those that were involved with Tienamen's Square.	b	Right.

qh	You know, did we really protect them?	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sv	and aside for that, they're the best and brightest of China

qo	Well, what do you think about,	b	Yeah.

sd	we have in Texas a large Vietnamese population that has been brought in.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And these are not the brightest.	qy^h	See, these are refujees, you mean?

nd	I mean we we're talking boat people.	bk	Okay.

sd	We have a lot of boat people in Texas.	b	Right.

ba	Good for you.	aa	Yeah,

sd	I was ready for a fight on this one .	b	Uh huh.

nn	No,	b	Uh huh.

sd	interesting, when my daughter was in high school, one of the custodians was Vietnamese	b	Yeah.

qy	Okay?	ny	Yes.

sd	Well, this is a very timely topic inasmuch as we're going to a family reunion this weekend.	bh	are you really?

ny	Yeah.	qw	Where is it going to be?

sd	Down at Lake Texoma lodge.	bk	Oh.

sd	this is one that's, the Baker family reunion	b	Uh huh.

sd	and this has been going on I would say, at least twenty five years or thirty, something like that.	ba	that's marvelous.

sd	Maybe longer than that, I'm going to get back into the fifties sometime.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the first time I went was about fifty seven, I think.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and now it's Lake Texoma, because that's more central location for people from Oklahoma and Texas to come to.	b	Uh huh.

aa	Very important, because, you'll start losing people if it's too far to go.	aa	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	sd	we never get them at both of them

bf	Never get them at both places,	aa	it seems like,

sd	of course, over the years it has, built up as far as the organization is concerned	b	Uh huh.

sd	And then they have generally a show or an auction or something on Saturday night to help raise funds to cover the costs of such.	ba	that's a neat idea.

sd	and everyone brings in food	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it really, has worked out.	b	Uh huh.

sd	generally, I think it's been as high as about a hundred and twenty people.	ba	Wow.

sd	I think normal's about sixty or seventy.	b	Yeah,

b	Oh .	sd	And I often feel funny because I'm in a branch that's all but died

b	Oh.	sd	I just have one aunt and my family.

b	Yeah.	sd	and we're kind of off on the sidelines.

b	Right.	sd	So we keep going even though we're not a real big part of it.

sd	and I were the kids, the newlyweds, so to speak	b	Uh huh.

sd	and our grandchildren are going now.	ba	that's great.

sd	So it's, wound up that, we're the old folks now.	b	Uh huh,

sd	and they organize a baseball game for the kids	b	Uh huh.

sd	so it it's a full day.	bf	So there's lots to do.

sd	Some of the people come down on Friday afternoon and spend the whole weekend,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and some just come in for Saturday	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's a chance to see some of the relatives you don't see all year long except that once a year.	b	Uh huh

sd	so, That's just too far away.	b	Oh.

b	Yeah.	sd	and it's just too much for all of them, all of that group to travel.

sv	It's an, all day drive just to get to this area.	aa	Right.

b	Yeah.	sd	and we thought that would be fun to kind of tie it in as a vacation time as well as reunion.

sd	each year, of course, they elect officers of the family reunion	b	Uh huh.

sd	We discovered how much work it is just to organize and get it together. And it takes a lot of planning, and assembling of stuff.	b	Uh huh.

ba	That's correct.	sv	That's a heavy burden.

sd	I don't really care for her to be president again.	b	No .

sd	but it's a lot of fun.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and the grandkids really enjoy it because it's the only time of the year they see all their cousins from Oklahoma.	b	Yeah,

sd	this weekend's going to be a rock and roll show	ba	boy.

sd	my two grandsons and one of their cousins are going to dress up and lip sing to a rock song you know, in jeans and t shirts and such.	ba	what fun.

sv	So, it's going to be exciting for them, and for us too.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	They, really get, into it.	b	Uh huh.

sv	well, that generally happens.	sd	And, they do it as a labor of love.

b	Yeah.	sv	So, the officer idea is a good idea.

sd	well we've, had various things over the years, to raise funds for it	b	Uh huh.

sd	and again, it's not cheap to rent the lodge up there or the meeting room down in the cabins and such,	b	Yeah.

sd	but, they've come up with,	b	Uh huh .

sd	and, some people do	b	Uh huh.

sd	and some people don't .	b	Yeah,

fc	Excuse me. But, anyway, that's the family reunion story.	fc	Uh huh.

fc	Okay.	fc	Well, thanks a lot I enjoyed talking to you.

qw	what kind of car are you thinking about buying next?	t1	Well, what do we currently have,

qw	What year?	sd	Eighty eight.

sd	and I'm ready to get rid of it .	sv	it's not pretty old.

sd	and I've had a lot of problems with this one,	qy	So, you think their quality control's going down over there, kind of ?

sv	I know a lot,	sv	Well, I, I think we're going to see that I think, that the quality that the Japan carmakers had is slipping a little bit, while American carmakers are trying to get their, put together,

aa^r	it's definitely true because,	sd	I've had no problems with my Subaru,

sv	well, Honda does too , that's why I was really,	b	Well, really,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and those things just keep ticking.

b	Yeah.	sd	I mean, they can rack up a hundred fifty K on them,

aa	That's true.	sd	and they're still beating on them,

aa	That's true.	sv	and it's just amazing

aa	not at all.	sv	but they're still a lot, I think, definitely better than the American carmaker system .

sd	and it was the worst car I've ever owned ,	b	Yeah.

sd	and, you know, I wouldn't even look at another car ,	b	Yeah.

h	but I don't know.	sv	Well, maybe you need to unload it on somebody el , .

sd	it was in the shop about twelve times the first twelve months .	b	Yeah,

sd	I was really disappointed because I was, you know, so, hyped up on Honda,	b	well.

b	Yeah.	b	Anyway,

sd	and I have kids,	qw^d	I'm not sure I'm real familiar with the body style on that.

sd	I don't like the new style, like of the Toyota van, and the new Chevy Lumina van,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I'm not sure how to explain it,	b	Yeah.

sd	I mean it looks, I guess, kind of like, the Chevy Aerostar or Arrow,	b	Yeah.

sd	Astro, I guess, is what it, something like that,	bk	okay,

sd	but I used to really like the looks of the M P V because it looks more like a mini van rather than I think,	qy	do you have a family?

sd^e	I have a couple kids .	bk	Okay,

qy^d	I'm sure you can, relate to air conditioning . living in Arizona,	ny	yeah.

sd	I mean, it's got to have those things, otherwise, I don't care.	b	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	The only gripe I have is performance.

bh	really?	sd	and then I could upgrade now if I wanted to

sd	but it's not practical for me,	b	Yeah .

qy^c	Hello,	qy^c^r	Hello.

qy^c	are you still there?	na	Okay.

sv^c	something's wrong.	qw^d^c	Wonder what happened.

qy^g^c	it sounds funny though, doesn't it?	sd	it just depends,

aa	yeah,	sd	and so, anyway but, Anyway my ultimate car though, the one that I really want is, five sixty or so, Mercedes,

sv	I know, well, new cars aren't cheap anyway,	sv	maybe someday .

qy^g	we all have those kind of dreams too, don't we?	ny	Yeah.

sv^e	This is strange.	qy^c	Hello.

sv^c	I think, something's wrong with this.	b	Okay.

sd^t	I hope it's recording .	sd	I hope it's not my ,

ny	Yeah .	sv	It may be my phone,

aa^r	Yeah.	sd	at the other one my brother's got a Miata

sv	they're cute cars .	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	they came out with a European racing, green, Miata that's a limited edition,

b	Oh.	sd	they're only going to make like three or four thousand.

sd	Wow, I haven't seen those.	sd	and I'm like, , but, I haven't seen one yet either

ba	Wow.	sd	so, it's very authentic

aa	definitely.	b	Yeah.

sv	no matter what it is, if it's a limited edition, it's usually worth something later on.	aa	Uh huh.

ny	Yeah.	bk	okay,

b	Oh.	sd	it's going to bump me out.

sv	Now, see, I would have figured that to be a lot more than that for something that's limited edition.	h	Well, I don't know,

qy^g	And, well , they weren't really that bad though when they were introduced were they?	ny	yeah,

aa	That's true.	sd	but there were, you know, people were buying them for nineteen and twenty,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and, they may have gone down a little bit

qy	Have you seen the new, Dodge Stealth? the, real nice one .	ny	yeah.

sv	the Mitsubishi is real nice looking too,	aa	Yeah,

sv	now those are nice .	sd	st , so , they just market them.

b	Right.	b	But, yeah,

sd	it doesn't have really the performance that the expensive one does.	b	Yeah.

sd	and it's not that great, I mean, because they really,	sd	I think they're only around, twenty nine K.

sd	it's not quite as nice for a little bit less.	b	Yeah.

sd(^q)	I have a hard time looking at cars like that because I think, now, there's no way I can do that .	b	Yeah,

b	Right.	sd	I've, haven't tried to upgrade myself right now,

bh	really?	sd	I just made my first job hop about eight months ago,

qo	Well, how do you feel about the immigration laws?	sv	currently, I think they are a little restrictive. particularly for, certain ethnic groups or from certain countries.

sd	well, I'm not real sure why I got this topic, because I don't think I checked it off on the list because I know very little about the current immigration laws.	b	Uh huh.

b	Oh.	sv	so I think, you know, the, embargo we placed on the Russian Jews, although we spent years and years, lobbying for their release and their ability to, immigrate from Russia as soon as that occurred, we simply said that, instead of the, hundred and fifty thousand or so who wanted to immigrate to this country, we cut that by, two thirds.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I do not quite go along with that,

sv	that doesn't make a whole of lot sense.	aa	No.

b	Uh huh.	sd	Both my mother's parents and my father's parents were immigrants

sd	Well, my family is from, Europe well, from England and Ireland and, have been in this country for, more than a hundred and fifty years almost two hundred years,	b	Uh huh.

sd	they were all born here	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I haven't taken the time or effort to learn what they are.	sv	Well, I think in a way, though, I also have, an opposite point of view, which is, although I believe we should, permit, you know, constant immigration into this country primarily for economic reasons, I think we should have, some quotas,

b	Uh huh.	sv	but, I think unrestricted immigration, I think, is not best,

sv	I think they'd come here trying to find a new market for their brand of crime.	aa	Uh huh.

sd	I was not aware of that.	b	Well, yes.

b	Uh huh.	sv	So I think in some ways we are, becoming a little too egalitarian in that sense,

na	I think so .	bk	All right.

fc	Well, I've enjoyed talking to you.	fc	I, I have talked long enough.

fc	Thanks.	fc	Thank you.

fc	Bye.	fc	Good bye.

ad	you want to start?	aa	Yeah,

sv	that's stuff we never even thought about three years ago.	aa	Right,

qy	Have they stopped that practice now?	sd	Well, course there's a tremendous number of excuse me, refrigerators and freezers, both commercial and residential, utilizing freon twelve,

b	Yeah.	sd	And that's got me very, you know, highly concerned that, that's going to be quite a while before we can, undo this.

b	yeah.	sv	Because as I say, there's a tremen ,

aa^r	yeah.	sv	I mean, there, there are people that have a thriving business, that do nothing but heating and air conditioning on automobiles and trucks,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so, that's why I stayed more towar , towards,

sd	I hate to see a car going down the street, or even a truck or bus for that matter, that's putting out a lot of dark smoke,	b	Uh huh.

sv	and I know there's a lot of pollutants we can't even see coming out of cars,	b	Right.

sd	but that particular bothers me.	sd	Well, most, most of the time when you see you know, the busses with the diesel those are carbon particles, and carbon dioxide and water vapor,

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know diesel fuel is burned in the diesel engine

b	Yeah.	sd	Diesel is going to be around, because it doesn't evaporate easily,

qy	Your family have reunions on a regular basis?	no	Probably, once every five years.

qy^m	Once every five years?	ny	Uh huh.

qy^d	you have got a pretty big family.	ny	Yeah

b	yeah.	qy	And you?

sd	well, I am originally from West Virginia.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Most of the family is right in the West Virginia, what they call Tri State area, northern West Virginia, eastern Ohio, southwestern Pennsylvania.	b	Yeah.

sd	Most everybody is right in that area.	sv	That makes it a lot easier.

b	Yeah.	sv	because it is always that hard to get everyone together.

sd	but she is gone now.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	qo	so, to make one successful, I mean, I mean what do you all do.

^h	Oh,	qy	Do you all just start planning real far ahead of time?

br	Pardon.	qy^r	do you all start planning real far ahead of time?

sd	so, the day it happens is ninety eight percent of the planning usually.	bh	really .

sd	we, get together, at the park, the park, and playground area of the Church I was raised in	b	Yeah.

sd	and some put up the volleyball net and sit around and tell stories and catch up and play volleyball all day and get really fat .	qy^d	Eat a lot.

ba	gosh.	sd	It is a lot harder for us because like I said we are spread out

b	Yeah.	sd	and so we have to plan anywhere from six, well really probably a year ahead of time so that everyone, can start their, vacation time.

sd	Sunday afternoon or, sometimes it has been like on a Saturday afternoon.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and most people do not have more than you know a couple of hours drive at tops to get there and back.	b	Yeah.

sd	So, we have got, my wife and I have, a bit longer ways to go than most.	qy^d	But, you also manage to make them.

nd	actually, we have only made one of them since we got married about four years ago. One of the family reunions.	b	Yeah.

sd	so that makes it kind of tough.	b	Yeah.

sd	they have been happening, just after the summer semester starts.	qy^d	You can't really get away.

sd	and she took that summer off.	sd	Well, now that we have been talking about it, I am kind of getting home sick now.

ba	goodness.	sd	Well, my grandfather is the only one that is still around.

b	Yeah.	sd	And see, my grandmother is the one that use to plan this stuff basically.

b	Yeah.	sd	So, unless the aunts and uncles really get on the ball and put stuff together, it is kind of like.

qw	Where is home for you?	sd	Originally, I, was born in Missouri.

b	Yeah.	sd	But, you know, we have relatives scattered out all over Louisiana, Mississippi, here in Texas

b	Yeah.	sd	but it is harder for everyone to get home.

qy^d	Well, maybe this year you can find a more central location.	nd	Well, but the majority of them are like, just like how you said in close quarters.

qy^d	Then the majority of them are still in the Missouri area.	ny	Yeah.

sd	the rest of them are within, you know, a couple hours drive.	qo	Well, how do you all communicate? Like to plan it and every thing.

^q	and, you all come.	b	Yeah.

sd	somebody brings a whole lot of ice for the watermelon	sd	Well, I guess probably the last one I went to I met so many people that I had not seen in probably over ten years.

^q	Am I related to you?	aa	Yeah.

^q	I married your cousin's brother's uncle or something like that.	qy	I mean do you have them every year?

qy^d	And, still, you wind up meeting people you never knew you were related to. Let alone	ny	Yeah.

b	yeah.	sd	and then when we do, and everyone finally does get together,

fp	Hi.	fp^m	Hi.

fp	and I live in Plano, Texas.	fp	Hi.

qrr	or should I start?	ad	Go right ahead.

qo	what about you? .	sd	I'm single,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and it's pretty typical of the other town homes in the area

bk	Okay.	sd	we have a lot of town homes here as well as single family homes,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and at the time that I bought this one it was just a much better arrangement for me personally.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so it was easier to have a home that didn't exactly that somebody else looks out for the maintenance.

sv	and it's a lot of work, owning a home with a little bit of property attached to it.	aa	It certainly is.

sd	sometimes I think, it would be nice to have a town home, with not having all that responsibility.	ad	Well, if you ever get one, be sure the walls are good and thick because if they're not you can hear.

b	Right.	sd	so I bought one that's more like living in a,

ba	that sounds lovely.	aa	It is.

b	Uh huh.	sd	so you don't actually hear anybody next door to you.

qy^d	So in your area then there's probably a lot of, career type people that have those type homes	ny	Yes,

sv	So it, also gives you a common bond when you don't have a lot of relatives visiting your neighbors,	sd	Well, we also in this area seem to have a lot of retirees people who don't want the heat of Florida but don't want the cold of the northeast

b	Uh huh.	sd	so they settle sort of in between.

qy^d	there lots of pretty trees and,	ny	Yes

b	Yeah.	sd	as a matter of fact this particular community that I live in is very wooded.

ba	how pretty.	sd	It is nice.

sd	and, the landscape is much different here in Texas than it is, you know, in the north. or even where you are.	sd	we definitely have a lot of trees here.

qy^d	A lot of leaves to rake up too, I bet.	ny	Yes

ba	well, see, that's another plus.	aa	Yes,

sv	and if you didn't do anything about it, then they'd probably the leaves just blow away .	b	Right.

fc	It was really nice speaking to you.	fc	It was good to speak with you too.

fc	and have a happy Thanksgiving.	fc	Thank you,

fc	Bye bye.	fc^m	Bye bye.

qy	Well, do you have any pets?	ny	Yes

bk	Oh.	sd	And I have a pair of box turtles.

sd	I used to have box turtles, well, years ago, when I was growing up	b	Yeah,

sd	I really like them.	b	yeah,

b	Oh.	sd	and they live in an aquarium without water in my family room,

sd	I had never heard of them	nn	No,

sd	and they're not, high strung or over bred 	b	Oh.

sd	and they range from probably ten to sixteen pounds	ba	that's interesting.

sd	and knowing how they love to dig and love the water, we thought that was kind of a tough climate	sv	the water,

sd	and, my son would rather have a Golden Retriever, though, I think	b	Oh.

sd	now he wants a good size dog .	b	Uh huh,

b	Yeah.	ba	The kind you have sounds very interesting, though.

sd	and and a lot of them stayed in the neighborhood	b	Oh.

sd	It's B I C H O N F R I S E.	b^m	F R I S E.

sd	Bichon Frise.	bk	Okay.

sv	so they're good dogs for people with allergies,	b	Yes,

sd	and they love people,	qy	Do they bark a lot?

sd	They had a Cockapoo, and two Bichons 	b	Uh huh.

sd	and she didn't bark at all until she spent time there	bk	Oh.

sd	she's a good watch dog	b	Uh huh.

sd	she has a definite personality	b	Yes.

sd	and so, if we're leaving her, she barks at us, because she doesn't want to be left.	b	Oh.

sd	The circuses in Europe used to use them for the acts.	b	Oh.

sd	they'll dance on their hind legs each	b	Uh huh.

sd	but they're very easy to train	b	Uh huh.

sd	They run anywhere from two hundred to four hundred dollars, I think which I thought was a lot.	qw	And how about the, And how about the person in, Houston?

nd	Well, she's no longer breeding them	bk	Oh.

sd	and, the one male that she used had a tooth problem	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so she only bred that dog once because it had the tooth problem, and did them strictly as, pets, you know they weren't show quality.	b	yes.

b	Ri ,	sd	we used to show Saint Bernards when I was a little girl.

sv	but, yeah, takes a lot of time.	aa	Yes,

sd	I know that the dog's grandmother, was from Plano,	sd	that's where I live,

sd	that's where I live, too.	b	Yeah,

sd	on capital punishment in our state, they give the death penalty for shooting of a policeman,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I believe also in I mean killing a rape victim. I mean someone in the process of rape,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I don't really remember what else.	b	Uh huh.

sv	I think it's justified.	aa	Yeah,

sv	Very much so.	aa	I, I, agree, you know,

sv	I think it should be in other cases other than just shooting a policeman .	aa	Yeah,

sv	but I think if they're going to come out and kill somebody else then they deserve it.	sv	They ought to get it for killing a civilian just as easily as a policeman.

aa	I agree.	aa	Yeah.

b	uh huh.	sd(^q)	And one of the questions the other day, this last paper, and I haven't seen the results of it, I'm anxious to, was do you think that, capital punishment ought to apply to drug dealers. Which I thought was a real interesting question .

qy	did you see SIXTY MINUTES tonight, by any chance?	nn	No,

sd	he's a black man,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and he just got fed up with it.	b	Uh huh .

sd	And he said he's had his house broken into and windows smashed and his car stolen three times and everything, trying to keep him quiet,	b	Uh huh .

sd	and they're going out and marching on the corners and taking back their territory .	sv	You know, I think that's what it's going to take, though.

aa^r	I think,	sv	I really do.

aa	I think you're right.	sv	it's going to take all of us getting together,

sd	We won't allow this in our neighborhood.	aa	That's right,

sd	And it said they're going to other neighborhoods from there,	b	Uh huh.

sd	and then quite often they'll get shot, because they're horning in on somebody else's territory.	aa	That's right,

sd	I think they said forty one had been shot out of one church in the last year.	ba	my gosh.

aa	I know it.	sv	I think you know being convicted is one thing, you know,

sv	Well it goes all through the state supreme court system before they're,	aa	Right,

sv	then it should happen,	sd	there can be no shadow of a doubt in my mind,

aa	That's right.	sv	So once, they've gotten the penalty and there is no doubt, do it, you know,

b	Right.	sv	I guess, I mean that sounds cold,

aa	that's right.	sv	and it's costing us a heck of a lot of money

sv	but that's the way it is .	sv	if the crime was bad enough that they were sentenced to death, then do it, you know,

qy^d	I don't know if there was anything in your paper about it.	ng	I didn't notice it,

sd	even Robert Redford, you know, was protesting this guy's execution.	ba	Gosh,

sd	and I was so mad.	ba	man.

sv	his crime was just horrible .	b	Yeah,

aa	I don't think,	sv	I really beli ,

aa	Huh uh.	sv	If they're the kind of people that commit these , excuse me, grotesque crimes and have done it over and over and over again, you don't reform those kind of people.

sv	and being under the influence of drugs is no excuse to me.	aa	No,

aa	yeah.	qh	Well, if you're insane enough that you can go cut twelve people up into little bitty pieces and bury them in your back yard, then can, can you be helped, you know,

aa	I do too.	h	you know, I don't know,

b	Right.	sd	and I understand you know, that, you know,

qrr^d	or was it not.	nn	No.

b^m	No.	nn	No,

sd	I think it was the south east area, from Dallas.	b	really.

sd	My daughter, my daughter lives down in Rowlett	b	Yeah.

sd	and she was telling me about it.	bh	really.

ny	Yeah.	b^m	Yeah.

sd	I can't remember what the town was, some little area.	sd	We've had several here lately

bh	Is that right.	ny	Yes,

sd	I hadn't heard about that.	sd	I think there's been like six or seven of them, over the last like probably eight or nine months.

qy	They just mo ,	ng^m	They don't kill them,

ba	Gosh.	sd	and they're all like, like anywhere from nine to twelve years old, I think is what they've been.

ba	Gosh.	sd	And he's taken them and raped them and then brought them right back and just kind of thrown them out of the car in their front yard.

bh	Boy that's scary, isn't it.	sd	can you imagine, because it happens in the middle of the night,

ba	boy.	bh	You know, can you imagine.

qy	Have you seen those?	sd	Shoo , you know, I've got one of those in Brian's room.

b	Yeah.	sd	I never even thought about that.

b	Yeah .	sd	I hadn't even thought about it .

aa	it is.	sv	Well it's really bad that you have to be, you know,

b	Uh huh.	sd	and they were playing in the back yard

b	Yeah.	sd	And she didn't act like it bothered her at all,

b	yeah.	sd	and I looked down both directions of the alley

ba	boy .	sd	And you know, my heart was in my throat, you know,

ba	Shoo, I guess so.	sd	and, Brian was two houses down. You know,

ba	Gee.	h	I don't know,

aa	I know.	sv	Parents around here just let their kids run everywhere,

sd	and they never saw her again .	ba	man, this is too scary, that is just too scary.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, I let Brian play here in the back yard

b	uh huh.	sd	And one of the gates has a padlock on it

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, like come over, they'd have to come over the fence,

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I still feel a little uneasy about him playing back there.

b	yeah.	sd	You know, I mean, if I don't hear him playing, I mean, I get up and come out and look out the window real often, you know,

ba	I don't blame you.	sv	It's really scary that you have to be that scared about your kids

b	Uh huh.	sv	better safe than sorry.

sd	And if they find who's doing that to those little girls, as far as I'm concerned he could, fry .	^2	He could fry.

b	Yeah.	aa	yes,

b	Right.	b	You know,

b	Yeah.	sd	and I believe that,

b	Yeah.	sv	Because these little girls will never be the same.

ba	that's terrible.	sv	Never be the same,

ba	gosh.	sd(^q)	and he said you know if you ever get on a jury, you know, you're not told this, but if you ever get on a jury you can pretty much guess, whatever you sentence them to,

aa	uh huh.	^q	they'll serve a quarter of it,

b	Yeah.	sv	so, if you want them to stay in prison for fifteen years, don't sentence them to fifteen years, sentence them to a hundred.

b	Yeah.	sd	You know, because then they'll serve fifteen or twenty, so. Which is really,

b	Yeah.	h	I don't know,

sv	it just doesn't seem right.	aa	No,

qh	I mean how can it be changed. Unless the legislature will do something	no	I don't know.

sv	and they don't seem to,	sv	That's the thing,

b	Uh huh.	sv(^q)	and we're going to have to say, if you commit this crime and if we're sure you commit this crime, you are going to be sentenced to death period, period,

b	Yeah.	sv	and do it, you know.

b	Yeah.	^q	And if you commit this crime, you will be in prison for the rest of your life.

b	Right.	sv(^q)	We're not going to say we're going to put you there for the rest of your life and let you out in fifteen years,

sv	I think it would be worth it everybody wo ,	sd	Well, I was watching a show about this the other night

ad	Go ahead.	sd	I usually don't get to hear any of the current events probably until about the ten o'clock news.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I mean, by the time you get off work, go by and pick up the, baby from the baby sitter, it's, you know, after six

sd	sometimes I hear some things on the radio.	b	Uh huh,

sd	I only get the newspaper on the weekends	b	uh huh.

b	Uh huh.	sd	you know, I'll look over my husband's shoulder and see what's going on.

sd	I, I guess occasionally I'll hear someone at work say something though.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And, it's pretty much headline news.

b	Yeah.	sv	Which isn't, you know, pretty much what we look for anyway.

b	Uh huh.	sv	But, do you think that the quality of the, you know, the news events that you get are,

sv	Well I guess it's pretty good.	b	Uh huh.

sv	there's, I guess, a lot of pressure in that business to, borderline at that.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	And sometimes I think it too much trying to figure out who's going to get the best headlines. And that they'll run a topic into the ground.

b	Yeah.	sv	And, You know, they try to play public's opinion. Which I think is awful, because it usually works.

sv	I'll bet that was the case of the war in the Middle East.	aa	Yes,

^h	Trying to think what else is, . is current.	b	Right.

sv	looks like we're going to have an income tax in Texas,	aa	Yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sv	you know, but we need good schools.

sv	I would think they could find a better way to fund it though,	aa	No.

sv	Well, they're struggling with it.	aa	Yeah.

sv	I'm not sure there's a positive solution for that.	aa	No.

^h	Trying to think what else is current.	sd	you know, I haven't seen the news in a couple of days.

sd	Well, the other thing I can think of is, what is still going on in Iraq and the Kurd refugees.	b	Yes,

sv	it begins to make you wonder why we didn't go ahead and go on in and, finish the job while we were in there.	b	Yeah.

b	Uh huh.	sv	and he'd have all these people jumping down his back, even though I'd agree with it.

sv	Seems to have helped him though, popularity wise.	aa	Yeah, it, it did a lot.

qy	were they in any of the areas where they, some of the Scuds?	ny	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	They were just north of it. Probably about a hundred fifty miles, hundred miles from the Kuwaiti border.

b	Uh huh.	sd	it was a new situation.

sd	I don't know anything else that's current other than the weather	aa	You're right,

qy	have you all been getting rain storms down there?	na	We got some awful rain, the other morning.

sd	we did last night. some real massive thunderstorms.	b	Yeah.

sd	Apparently, I don't know if it was just the strong winds or some small tornadoes up this way too.	b	Uh huh.

sd	Caused some damage.	bh	It did?

sd	We may get some more tonight.	sd	well. we've just got slight chances of rain.

sd	and it's all saturated now,	b	Oh .

sd	we're getting some flooding.	b	Right,

ba	Goodness.	sd	And, you walk out on the ground,

sv	It's a lot more humid down that way.	b	Yeah .

sv	In fact, miserable.	sd	Well, today I mean, the air was just so sticky, so damp.

sd	I think there were places around downtown Fort Worth last night they got three inches in a real short period of time, like an hour or so just, a bunch.	ba	Goodness.

fc	Well, I guess that's it .	fc	Right.

fc	That's about as much as we can do with current events.	fc	Right.

fc	Good talking to you, Michelle.	fc	All right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	And I don't have elderly parents, yet but not that far in the distant future.

sd	So this is something that is,	qy^d	A concern of yours right now.

sd^e	it is.	qy	are they living independently, right now?

sd^e	they are.	bk	Oh.

sd^r	They are.	qy	Have you looked at any homes for them or talked to them about that?

sd	and they felt like that would be their alternative to a nursing home.	ba	that sounds the ultimate.

sd	unless they were so ill that they needed nursing care that could not be given in the home.	sv	Well, even at that point, most care can be given in the home.

sd	even the people that are wheelchair bound and really are incapacitated. Go and, participate in olympics	b	Uh huh.

sd	and they make their crafts and sell them at a big fair that's held annually at a big mall here .	b	Right.

sd	So that the people are really,	^2	Really in need of a nursing home.

sd	They need, the nursing care,	b	Right,

sv	and, but it's a very expensive solution.	aa	Well, it's, you know,

b	Right.	sv	and then, of course, there is always the problem of being able to afford either of those solutions.

aa	Uh huh.	sv	And that, I think is what is scary,

sd	and, they brought in a very elderly man from a nursing home who had, apparently inhaled some chicken he was eating.	b	Oh.

sd	And when the family walked in, his wife and daughter and son in law, they were not even aware of what had happened.	ba	goodness.

sd	and, the, the woman, the wife said he was not even supposed to be eating any food like that that would require chewing or, so, you know,	b	Oh.

aa^r	Right.	sv	and then they could have done that well at home.

sd	He had on a pair, of slacks,	b	Oh.

sd(^q)	and she said "I just took two pair over yesterday for him that were clean."	sv	You hear these stories, all the time.

sd	Well, this was just something that I was, I witnessed to.	b	Right.

sd	And we were there in the same room with the man for a half hour .	b	Oh.

sd	And, with just a curtain, of course, between us and,	b	Right.

sd	They said he will not go back to that one.	ba	Well, good.

sd	I'm glad they the option.	aa	yes.

sd	and there was no choice.	aa	Exactly.

ba	my.	sv	As the situation is so sad because it just takes all the dignity away from, from people who have been independent all their lives.

aa^r	Uh huh.	sd	Like this was a really neat vital woman

b	Right.	sd	And oh I do not know what the answer is,

aa	That's right.	sv	if you, you know, have family that, you can live with.

sv	Visits everyday.	aa	Right.

aa^m	Right.	aa^m	Right.

aa	right.	sv	And, hopefully, they would have it so that you could go there anytime.

b	Right.	sv	Because if you could not go there anytime, then that would make you, a little bit su ,

^2	Suspicious.	aa	right.

sd	she really was not aware of what she was doing.	b	Uh huh.

qy	do you live in a home?	ny	Yes.

b	Uh huh.	sd	we, it's a house we bought, about two and a half years ago now.

bh	did you?	ny	Uh huh.

b^m	Uh huh.	sd	First house.

sd	We had it built, actually.	b	Uh huh.

sd	And, it's our first home, too.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	qo	So what do you think of owning a home as opposed to renting somebody else's?

sd	well before we built our home we were managing some apartments that we were living in,	b	Uh huh.

sd	I much prefer having my own home and, just the space and more privacy.	b	Uh huh.

b	Yeah.	qy	is it a fairly large house?

sd	it's like twenty four fifty square feet.	ba	that's pretty good size.

sd	It's a two story.	b	Uh huh.

qo	How about yours?	sd	It's tiny.

qy	Is it small?	na	It's not much bigger.

bh	really.	ny	Yeah,

qy	do you have children?	sd	Just one.

b^m	Just one.	b	Yeah.

b	Yeah.	sd	I'd rather have more rooms and less space in each one I guess. Rather have lots of rooms and lots of space,

qw	Well, like, how does it compare to the ones in your neighborhood? .	sd	Well, it's pretty typical, I mean, it's a very, very middle class neighborhood.

b	uh huh.	sd	and, lots of kids and stuff,

b	Yeah.	qy	is yours also pretty much in conformance with the neighborhood

sd^e	it, it, it does, it seems about, probably average.	qrr	or is it?

sd	we're in our thirties.	b	Uh huh.

sd	People across the street have eight.	b	Uh huh,

ny	Uh huh.	ba	my gosh.

sd	their home just burned down matter of fact, last summer,	b	Ooh.

sd	and, their house is going to be really big .	aa	I'm sure, with eight,

sd	He's, not an obstetrician, an orthopedic surgeon.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and it's it's a lot bigger.	b	Uh huh.

sd	and, it's not the biggest either.	b	Yeah,

b	Yeah.	sd	and his house actually ended up being nicer than lots in the neighborhood,

b	Yeah.	sd	He was a little surprised.

sd	you say that, because we have those architectural codes here	b	Uh huh.

sd	we have part siding on the two story part and then on the back,	b	Uh huh.

sd	so we ended up having to go halfway up	b	Uh huh.

sd	but, it's funny that you'd say that, because there were homes in here that didn't have any brick at all.	b	Right.

sv	So it's kind of like, they were.	sv	Kind of depends on when they get in, you know.

b^m	Yeah,	b	Yeah,

sd	it's like the second phase	b	Uh huh.

sd	and so that's kind of why, I guess, they stuck us with more brick when there were other homes that didn't have any.	sd	Well, see, my sister kind of got in the opposite end of that, because they moved into a neighborhood and bought a real nice stone house down in South Austin.

b	uh huh.	sd	and, what the builder apparently plans to do, is they do phase one,

qy	Well, you keep up with current events?	na	somewhat.

bh	Is that right?	sd	but that's the way it goes.

qw	whereabouts in Pennsylvania.	br	What?

qw	Where in Pennsylvania?	sd	State College,

ba	well, great.	b	Yep.

sd	We're supposed to talk about current events.	aa	Right,

sd	and I like to read TIME magazine and PEOPLE magazine to keep up with what's going on in the world.	b	I see.

sd	And, not and then again not everything,	b	Uh huh.

sd	Political things don't interest me a great deal, except I do like to stay informed enough to, feel like I halfway vote intelligently, you know	b	Uh huh.

sd	just the events that happen around the world interest me. Stay in touch with it and feel like I know what's going on.	b	Yeah.

sd	Now I have to say all three of my children, none of them are too interested in current events.	b	I see.

sd	But I always have been	b	Uh huh.

qo	But, how do you, stay aware of most of the current events. newspaper? T V news, or what?	sd	 well, some of both.

b	Uh huh.	sd	I read the newspapers sometimes

b	Uh huh.	sd	and I watch C N N, that sort of thing occasionally

ba	that's good.	sd	and I read magazines, and such.

bf	Well, you stay up with it pretty well, then.	aa	Well, yeah,

b	Uh huh.	sd	so I am interested in what's going on,

bh	you've been there	ny	and, yeah.

sv	well, you would be interested in it then.	aa	Right,

sd	but I'm always aware of what's going on like that	b	Yep,

sv	because it's interesting	b	Uh huh.

sv	they've just been so terribly mistreated for so many years, you know. I mean, through Papa Doc,	aa	That's true.

sv	I mean he was a terrible tyrant	b	Uh huh.

sv	but it's still been bad	b	Yeah.

sd	I've read some things about him that he wasn't too good himself.	bh	yeah?

sd	he didn't mind having people bumped off for certain things, you know.	b	Uh huh.

sv	But, It's, one of the reasons the U S you know, didn't do more than they did at the time because they weren't all that excited about him, although he's probably better than a lot of them,	b	I see.

sv	I guess it's the only thing that works.	b	Yeah,

sv	I think we're lucky to have as good a coverage as we have	b	Uh huh.

sd	and I listen to the radio	b	Right,

sv	but then again, so many people you got to understand only catch it once a day, maybe	b	Yep.

sv	but I think the quality of our news is just, I don't believe it could be better	b	Uh huh.

sd	I really don't.	b	Yeah,

sv	I don't think our news could be better.	b	Yeah.

sv	I don't see anything that they could do.	b	Yeah,

sv	Well, you always want to think everything can be improved upon	aa	Right.

ba	I understand what you're saying,	aa	Right,

sv	But by trial and error over the years, I think they got it about as good as they're going to get it.	aa	Well, that may be so,

sv	 nothing is perfect.	sv	I think that I'm not always satisfied with how dig they deep into the how deep they dig into things and such.

sv	that's why we have C N N.	b	Right.

sv	C N N has the time, since that's all they do is news to dig deeper.	b	Uh huh.

ad	you want to go ahead and tell me your favorite team, or who you think will be doing well this year.	sd	well, where I'm from the Atlantic coast conference is a very big conference

qy	Are we talking about, is this the N B A?	nn	No,

b^m	This is college, College, okay .	b	Right.

b	Uh huh.	sd	So, hopefully we'll have a good year.

sd	, so, that seems to help.	qy	Do you like professional basketball?

sv	and, the Lakers have always been amazing to watch.	b	Yeah.

sv	and, maybe now that that's over they'll come out of it	sv	Well, that's an up and coming team, though.

sv	or they're not going to have any of the team left at all.	sv	That's somebody you can get behind and, be patient.

sv	Kind of like the Cowboys , I guess.	aa	Yeah,

sv	We'll see if it's held on.	sv	But, I think Chicago will probably with the N B A again.

qy	The Bulls?	ny	Yeah,

sv	Course, the Celtics are always really good, too, with their players.	aa	That's true.

sv	Be interesting to see how the Olympics does this year with all the N B A players playing on the Olympic team.	aa	That's true,

sv	and we need to talk about baseball	b	Yeah,

b^r	yeah.	sv	It's a long season.

sd	and I haven't really even started thinking about basketball yet	b	Yeah.

fc	it's good talking to you.	fc^m	Good to talk to you.

fc	bye.	fc	Bye bye.

